






<!--
		document.isTrellix = 1;
//						-->Illustrated Script: CHARLIE CHAN CARRIES ON













































        function tweNavbarPreload(imgSrc, imgObj) {
            if (document.images) {
                eval(imgObj+' = new Image()');
                eval(imgObj+'.src = "'+imgSrc+'"');
            }
        }

        function tweNavbarChangeImage(imgName, imgObj) {
            if (document.images) {
                document[imgName].src = eval(imgObj + ".src");        
            }
        } 

    	
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/entrancelink01.jpg","twe24451A");
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/entrancelink01.jpg","twe24451B");
		
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/directorylink01a.jpg","twe24452A");
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/directorylink01a.jpg","twe24452B");
		
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/calendarlink01.jpg","twe24453A");
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/calendarlink01.jpg","twe24453B");
		
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/chatroomlink.jpg","twe24454A");
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/chatroomlink.jpg","twe24454B");
		
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/messageboardlink01.jpg","twe24455A");
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/messageboardlink01.jpg","twe24455B");
		
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/bulletinboardlink.jpg","twe24456A");
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/bulletinboardlink.jpg","twe24456B");
		
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/thefilmslink01.jpg","twe24457A");
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/thefilmslink01.jpg","twe24457B");
		
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/thelostfilmslink.jpg","twe24458A");
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/thelostfilmslink.jpg","twe24458B");
		
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/otherchanfilmslink01d.jpg","twe24459A");
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/otherchanfilmslink01d.jpg","twe24459B");
		
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/thetvserieslink.jpg","twe244510A");
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/thetvserieslink.jpg","twe244510B");
		
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/castlistlink01.jpg","twe244511A");
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/castlistlink01.jpg","twe244511B");
		
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/linkslink01.jpg","twe244512A");
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/linkslink01.jpg","twe244512B");
		
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/charliechanlink01.jpg","twe244513A");
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/charliechanlink01.jpg","twe244513B");
		
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/aphorismslink01.jpg","twe244514A");
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/aphorismslink01.jpg","twe244514B");
		
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/chronologylink01.jpg","twe244515A");
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/chronologylink01.jpg","twe244515B");
		
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/glossarylink01.jpg","twe244516A");
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/glossarylink01.jpg","twe244516B");
		
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/earlderrbiggerslink01.jpg","twe244517A");
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/earlderrbiggerslink01.jpg","twe244517B");
		
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/warnerolandlink01.jpg","twe244518A");
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/warnerolandlink01.jpg","twe244518B");
		
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/sidneytolerlink01.jpg","twe244519A");
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/sidneytolerlink01.jpg","twe244519B");
		
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/rolandwinterslink01.jpg","twe244520A");
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/rolandwinterslink01.jpg","twe244520B");
		
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/jcarrolnaishlink01a.jpg","twe244521A");
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/jcarrolnaishlink01a.jpg","twe244521B");
		
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/familyroomlink01.jpg","twe244522A");
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/familyroomlink01.jpg","twe244522B");
		
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/studylink01.jpg","twe244523A");
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/studylink01.jpg","twe244523B");
		
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/gallerylink01.jpg","twe244524A");
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/gallerylink01.jpg","twe244524B");
		
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/librarylink01.jpg","twe244525A");
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/librarylink01.jpg","twe244525B");
		
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/chansundaycomicslink01a.jpg","twe244526A");
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/chansundaycomicslink01a.jpg","twe244526B");
		
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/cartoonslink01.jpg","twe244527A");
			tweNavbarPreload("sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/cartoonslink01.jpg","twe244527B");
		

















 
 
                  

Production Script:
CHARLIE CHAN CARRIES ON


  
NOTE:  The charater Inspector Hayley is erroneously noted as Inspector
                  Hanley in the cast listing in this script.  This error seems to have carried over to records elsewhere which
                  list the character, played by Lumsden Hare, as Inspector Hanley.  However, very reliable information indicates that in
                  the final version of Charlie Chan Carries On the caracter was referred to as Inspector Hayley, just as we find in
                  the following script.


 
 
                  

CHARLIE CHAN CARRIES ON





























BY


EARL DERR BIGGERS 





























 
CONTINUITY & DIALOGUE BY PHILIP KLEIN & BARRY CONNORS CAMERAMAN:
                  GEORGE SCHNEIDERMAN SOUND: GEORGE P. COSTELLO ART DIRECTOR: JOE WRIGHT COSTUMES: SOPHIE WACHNER FILM
                  EDITOR: AL DE GAETANO ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SAM WURTZEL DIRECTOR: HAMILTON MACFADDEN


   
CHARACTERS


 
CHARLIE CHAN: Inspector, Honolulu Police CHIEF INSPECTOR DUFF: Scotland Yard INSPECTOR
                  HAYLEY: Scotland Yard PAMELA POTTER: Granddaughter of murdered Drake DR. LOFTON: Courier of round the world
                  tour WALTER HONYWOOD: Theatrical manager from New York PATRICK TAIT: Former criminal lawyer MARK KENNAWAY:
                  Tait's young companion, from Boston JOHN ROSS: Lumberman from Washington ELMER BENBOW: A tire manufacturer,
                  from Akron, Ohio NETTIE BENBOW: His wife CAPTAIN KEANE: A traveler MAX MINCHIN: Former Chicago racketeer
                  SADIE MINCHIN: His wife SYBIL CONWAY: Actress -- Honywood's estranged wife MARTIN: Floor waiter at
                  Broome's Hotel MRS. CHAN: Charlie's wife HENRY CHAN: Charlie's son SHIP'S CAPTAIN: Captain of 'President
                  Arthur' 


   
CAST


 
Warner Oland: CHARLIE CHAN John Garrick: MARK KENAWAY Marguerite Churchill:
                  PAMELA POTTER Warren Hymer: MAX MINCHIN Marjorie White: SADIE MINCHIN C. Henry Gordon: JOHN ROSS William
                  Holden: PATRICK TAIT George Brent: CAPTAIN RONALD KEANE Peter Gawthorne: INSPECTOR DUFF John T. Murray:
                  DR. LOFTON John Swon: ELMER BENBOW Goodee Montgomery: MRS. BENBOW Jason Robards Sr.: WALTER HONYWOOD
                  Lumsden Hare: INSPECTOR HANLEY Zeffie Tilbury: MRS. LUCE Betty Francisco: SYBIL CONWAY Harry
                  Beresford: KENT John Rogers: MARTIN J. G. Davis: EBEN


   
Adaptation & Dialogue By PHILIP KLEIN and BARRY CONNERS 


   
FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT Dated: December 23, 1930


    
FADE IN ON A PERSON [?] SHOT - of the EXTERIOR OF SCOTLAND YARD. Over
                  this - SUPERIMPOSE TITLE: 


"SCOTLAND YARD"  
DISOLVE TO INTERIOR INSPECTOR HAYLEY'S OFFICE as Duff enters, removing his dripping hat and ulster.
DUFF: Morning, Hayley. HAYLEY: Morning, Duff. Happy to see you. I'm in need
                  of a bit of cheer. DUFF: I brought some with me. Just had a letter from our old Chinese friend, Charlie Chan. HAYLEY:
(Pleased) Where is he? Still in Honolulu? DUFF: Yes. He's Inspector of detectives
                  there, now. And he sends a photograph of what he calls his multitudinous blessings. (Handing photograph to Hayley)
Says he's named his youngest child after me -- Duff Chan. 


CLOSE SHOT -- INSERT -- Charlie Chan at the right.  Mrs. Chan at the left, and between them ten children, ranging from a boy
                  of eighteen to a baby of two -- the three youngest in Chinese dress.  All wear happy smiles.  

HAYLEY: Great Scott! Looks like something out the 'Birth of a Nation,' doesn't it? 


Duff turns photo over.  In bold hand-writing is the inscription:  "Each man thinks his own cuckoos better than next man's
                  nightingales.  Charles Chan"

DUFF: Pity he's wasted in a place like Honolulu, isn't it? HAYLEY: Can't be
                  any worse than here. Wish something would happen - I need action! DUFF: Don't hunt trouble; it's bad luck. Remember
                  what Chan used to say about that, don't you? HAYLEY: (Grins) What? DUFF:
(Quotes -- smilingly) "Always very hard winter when honorable cheese runs after mouse."



Duff restores photograph to his pocket, picks up coat as if to go. Telephone rings --
                  Hayley answers. 


HAYLEY: (Into phone) Yes? Inspector Duff
                  is here now. (Motioning to Duff) DUFF: (Takes phone) Yes -- Duff
                  speaking...what?...Party of American tourists on a trip around the world? What about it?....Murdered? What's his name?...Where
                  was he murdered?......I'll come at once! (He hangs up -- addresses Hayley) Wealthy American named
                  Hugh Morris Drake, murdered at Broome's Hotel. Better come along. 


DISOLVE TO: CLOSE SHOT of tightly clenched fist. A pair of hands force fingers open, taking
                  from them a piece of platinum chain to which is attached safe-deposit box key. ON SOUND TRACK throughout action is
                  heard the distracted sobbing of a girl. CAMERA MOVES BACK, disclosing Duff in Room 28, Broome's Hotel - the hand and
                  arm of a murdered man, and girl kneeling at foot of bed, head bowed in arms, body convulsed with sobs. Hayley gently
                  lifts the girl to her feet. 


HAYLEY: Please, Miss, you'd better go -- this is Inspector Duff from Scotland Yard. 


The girl, unresisting, still sobbing, covers face with hands, as they lead her gently away.  Almost at door she stops and
                  speaks.

PAM: (Brokenly) He was so good -- so kind to everyone --
                  how could anyone do it? 


They lead her to the door.
DUFF: I should like to speak to you later, Miss. PAM: Very well.
(Exits) HAYLEY: That's his grand-daughter. She was making the trip around the world with him.



Duff examines key.
DUFF: Number 3260. Dietrich Safe and Lock Company, Canton, Ohio. (Softly)
                  Good old boy. Tried to help us. Tore off the end of his assailant's watch-chain, and kept it for us. HAYLEY:
(Nods) That's something. 


Again Duff bends over bed -- Hayley watches. He turns, holding, with a handkerchief, a
                  thin, black leather strap.


DUFF:   Strangled with this.
Hayley nods. CAMERA FOLLOWS DUFF as he moves to dresser near alcove. From
                  dresser, Duff, still using handkerchief, picks up a pair of earphones, examines them carefully, puts them back. 


DUFF: (To himself) Deaf.


Through open window, from street below, come the notes of "Silver Threads Among The Gold,"
                  Duff turns from dresser, moves to window, looks out, then examines lock carefully -- closes window, then opens it again. He
                  turns from window to a door connecting room 28 and 29. With his handkerchief, he tests knob. It is locked. He stands a moment,
                  puzzled, then turns to Hayley, who enters to him, holding a small chamois bag in his hands. 


HAYLEY: (Giving him bag) Found this at
                  the head of the bed.


Duff takes the bag, opens it -- pours part of the contents into his hand.  It is filled with small round pebbles, which Duff
                  examines closely.

DUFF: Pebbles. HAYLEY: What do you make of it, Chief? DUFF:
(Recapitulating as he pours pebbles back into bag) A harmless old man -- very deaf, strangled to death --
                  yet no evidence of any struggle. (As though thinking aloud) Not even the nap of the carpet has been
                  disturbed. (Gazing thoughtfully about him) I believe he wasn't murdered in this room.


Kent, Manager of Hotel, and Dr. Lofton, enter from hall.
KENT: Pardon me, inspector, Doctor Lofton, conductor of the tour. (Presenting
                  Dr. Lofton) This is Inspector Duff of Scotland Yard. LOFTON: I'm not precisely a conductor.
                  For fifteen years, I have been managing director of Lofton's round-the-world tours. DUFF: (Dryly) Yes?
                  LOFTON: This year I have a comparatively small group -- thirteen; at least, there were thirteen last night. DUFF:
(Noding) Ah, yes. Was there any trouble on the tour before last night? Anything that seemed like enmity?
                  LOFTON: (Indignantly) Absurd! The members of the party scarcely know one another as yet.


Duff eyes him.  He continues excitedly.
Don't begin with the idea that some member of the party killed Hugh Drake! It's impossible
                  -- some sneak thief -- some hotel servant -- DUFF: Why do you wish me to think that? LOFTON: (Almost
                  pleading as he lays his hand on Duff's arm) Inspector, this is a serious situation to me -- my reputation --
                  everything is liable to be ruined by this -- DUFF: (Holding out thin black strap with which Drake was
                  murdered) I understand. Have you ever noted this strap on the luggage of any of your guests?


He stops at the surprised look on Lofton's face.
LOFTON:   This is odd!  I have a strap identically like that on one of my bags.  DUFF:   Will you get it, please?
                   LOFTON:   Gladly, Inspector.  DUFF:   Have you assembled the members of your party in the drawing room? 
LOFTON:   Some of them are out, but I've gotten most of them together.  DUFF:   Thank you, Dr. Lofton. 

Lofton exits.  Duff turns to Kent. 
Who occupies the room next to this? (Pointing to door between rooms)
                  KENT: A Mr. Honywood, sir. Member of this party. DUFF: Can you open it? KENT: Yes.


He turns to door and with pass-key unlocks it.  He stands aside as Duff goes into Honywood's room.  CAMERA FOLLOWS
                  WITH DUFF.  Room 29 is much smaller than room 28.  There is a sense of mustiness about it, the windows being tightly closed.
                   Duff goes to window, tries to open it, but cannot.  He takes out notebook -- glances around room -- makes
                  memorandum.  He notices half-packed Gladstone bag.  As he bends over it --  SOUND OF KEY BEING INSERTED IN LOCK. 
Walter Honywood enters room - a dissipated looking man in late thirties. 

DUFF:   Come in, Mr. Honywood.
An expression of alarm appears on Honywood's face, at seeing Duff in his room.
Sit down, please.  You know what's happened, of course?
Honywood nods.
You heard no cry -- no struggle during the night? HONYWOOD: (Nervously)
                  Nothing -- I was sound asleep when the murder was committed. DUFF: (With lightning rapidity)
Oh, you know when it occurred, then? HONYWOOD: Well -- no. Of course not. I merely assume I
                  must have been asleep. (Mopping his brow) DUFF: (Watching him with deep interest)
I seem to have heard your name somewhere. HONYWOOD: I'm a theatrical manager. Perhaps you've
                  also heard of my wife, Miss Sybil Conway? DUFF: (Nods) She's with you?
                  HONYWOOD: No. We had an estrangement about two months ago. She's at San Remo on the Riviera. Our tour touches there,
                  and I hope to persuade her to join me.


Honywood takes out cigarette and holds lighter to it.  His hand trembles violently, he looks up -- sees Duff watching him.
This affair has been a great shock. You see, I recently had a nervous breakdown. DUFF:
(Ironically) Rather odd, isn't it, Mr. Honywood, that a man who has just had a nervous breakdown should be
                  such a -- sound sleeper? HONYWOOD: (Starts) Why -- I -- I never have any trouble that way.
                  DUFF: Will you wait for me below, please?


Honywood makes an effort to pull himself together, and exits.  Duff re-enters room 28, where finger-print expert and Hayley
                  are still working.

Any finger prints? HAYLEY: Not yet. 


Duff starts from room.   At door the excited Lofton almost bumps into him.
LOFTON: (Entering excitedly) My strap is
                  gone! DUFF: Really? (Pointing to the strap on a small table near the door) Then perhaps
                  this is yours? LOFTON: (Looking closely -- then frightened) I'm afraid
                  it is -- DUFF: (Noting Lofton's aggitation) Well go into this matter of the strap, later.
                  Will you wait downstairs, please?


Lofton exits.
KENT: (Entering with an old man) This is our night watchman.
                  He wishes to make a statement. EBEN: It's this way, sir. While I was making my rounds last night at two o'clock, I
                  saw a gentleman standing in front of room 27. When he heard me he said, "I'm afraid Im on the wrong floor. My room is below."
                  DUFF: You saw his face? EBEN: Yes, sir. I can identify him if hes still about. Then, at four o'clock, on the
                  upper floor, someone in the dark knocked me down. DUFF: The same man? EBEN: Can't say, sir. As I fell my torch
                  showed a gray suit. I seized the pocket of the coat and heard the cloth tear. Then he hit me again -- and when I come to,
                  he was gone. DUFF: (Knits brow) Thank you, Eben. Wait downstairs. (To
                  Hayley) Look for a gray coat with a torn pocket -- or the other end of this chain. HAYLEY: (As
                  Duff is about to go) This may interest you; did you know there's a retired Chicago racketeer in this party? DUFF:
                  Really? HAYLEY: Yes -- man named Max Minchin -- the New York police have asked us to keep a kindly eye on him. DUFF:
                  Thank you, Hayley -- we shall.


CUT TO:  THE LOUNGE  Members of the party are assembled, including Max and Sadie Minchin.  The lounge
                  is done in red plush and walnut decorations.  There are book-cases of dusty volumes -- old sporting prints.  Outside, the
                  sun has pierced through the fog, and is casting weird light into the room, illuminating the faces of the Lofton party.  Max
                  Minchin, who has made himself the center of interest in group, addresses them. 

MAX: The first thing to remember if anybody here done it, don't say nothin' until you seen
                  a lawyer. SADIE: Come on, Maxie, it's no use nursing a grouch, nobody's accusin' you. 


MAX: Patrol your own beat, I'm takin' no info from a skirt! MRS. LUCE: What language
                  is he speaking? 


CUT TO:   LOBBY OF BROOME'S HOTEL   Dr. Lofton has joined Duff.  As they move down lobby in direction of
                  lounge, a dignified man enters from one of he side corridors.  He is distinguished in appearance -- has a shock of snow-white
                  hair.   Lofton stops him as he passes.  

LOFTON: Mr. Tait! Inspector Duff of Scotland Yard. (To Duff)
                  Mr. Tait is a criminal lawyer from New York. 
 
TAIT: (Holding out hand) How do you do, sir. What is this
                  about murder? DUFF: Step inside, Mr. Tait. You will know all the details in a moment.


Tait turns with Duff and with a firm step crosses the threshold of the lounge. He stands
                  a moment, looking about at group inside, then gives little strangled cry and pitches forward onto floor. Duff is beside him
                  in an instant, turns him over with deep concern -- looks at his face. It is as blank as that of the dead man upstairs. 
 
Immediately a young man enters and kneels down beside Tait. He is good-looking, with frank
                  eyes - but his manner is somewhat startled. Removing a small, pearl-like object from a bottle, he crushes it in handkerchief
                  and holds it under Tait's nose. 


MARK KENNAWAY: (To Duff) Amyl nitrate.
                  It will bring him around in a moment. DUFF: You are Mr. Tait's travelling companion? MARK: Yes. I'm Mark Kennaway.
                  Mr. Tait is subject to this sort of thing. That's why he employed me to come with him.


Tait stirs; starts breathing heavily as he comes to.  Duff indicates that they had better get him out of there.  Together
                  they carry him into a little coffee room leading from lobby, and place him on a couch.

DUFF: (To Mark) Let me know when he's fully recovered.


He starts from room as Martin comes in.  Duff stops him.  Martin is a servant with a rather blank face - much younger than
                  Eben.  He is obviously nervous.

DUFF: Are you Martin? MARTIN: Yes, sir. DUFF: You discovered Mr. Drake's
                  body this morning? MARTIN: Yes, sir. DUFF: Tell me about it. MARTIN: (Nervous - stumbling
                  in speech) I awoke Mr. Drake every morning, sir. He was very deaf and it took a bit of doing.
                  DUFF: And this morning? MARTIN: I knocked many times, but there was no answer. DUFF: What then? MARTIN:
                  I got the housekeeper's key, and entered the room. Then I notified the management at once, and that's all I can tell you,
                  Inspector. DUFF: Thank you, Martin. MARTIN: Yes, sir. 


Duff starts from the coffee room and gets into lounge.  He closes door behind him - walks to center of room, addresses those
                  awaiting him.

DUFF:   Allow me to introduce myself.  Inspector Duff of Scotland Yard.
The various members of the group look at him with anxious eyes.  Duff turns to CAPTAIN RONALD KEANE, a man of about 38, with
                  a hawk-like nose, well-dressed, and seemingly at ease.  At Duff's look of inquiry, he introduces himself.

KEANE: I am Captain Ronald Keane. DUFF: Military man? KEANE: Why -
                  yes. MRS. LUCE: Captain Keane told me that he was in the British Army and has seen service in India and South Africa.
                  DUFF: (To Keane) Is that true? KEANE: (Hesitates) Well
                  -- no -- not precisely. I was just - well - romancing a bit. You see - DUFF: (Interrupting) Were
                  you ever in any army? KEANE: (Again hesitating - afraid to tell another lie) Well
                  - no -- the title is really honorary. DUFF: (Makes a note, coming very close to him) Just
                  what is your business? KEANE: None, at present -- retired -- DUFF: What were you? KEANE: Well, once
                  I was an engineer -- just put me down as -- as -- gentleman. DUFF: Been out of the hotel this morning? KEANE:
                  Yes, to cash a check. 


Duff turns to Mrs. Luce.
DUFF:   And you?
Retired lady. She smiles widely and glances at Keane.  Duff, getting the shaft, smiles.
DUFF: Just travelling? MRS. LUCE: My fourth trip around he world. DUFF:
(Looking at list) You occupy Room 27, Madam?


Mrs. Luce nods.
You heard no sounds last night in the room where --  MRS. LUCE:   Not last night - but - there was a row the night
                  before. 

Duff looks at her with interest.  Mrs. Luce hesitates a moment, looking at Dr. Lofton.
Perhaps Dr. Lofton would like to tell you, himself.
Lofton rises, very ill at ease, as Duff turns to him.
DUFF: Just what occurred the night before last, Dr. Lofton? LOFTON:
(A bit panicky) I was in Mr. Drake's room. He objected to several members of the party.
                  Their presence upset him. I was merely trying to explain my position.


Duff gives him a long look and makes note.  He turns, looks in direction of small alcove.  As Duff nods, a tall man in tweed
                  suit, rises.  He carries a heavy walking stick, and one leg is held rather stiffly as he limps toward Duff.

DUFF:   Your name, sir,  ROSS:  John Ross.  I am a lumberman from Tacoma, Washington.  DUFF:   Know anything
                  about this murder?  ROSS:   Not a thing, Inspector.  DUFF:   You knew Drake, of course?  ROSS:   Yes.
                   Nice old fellow - got to know him pretty well on board ship.  I liked him a lot.  DUFF:   Been out this morning?
                   ROSS:   Yes.  I went for a walk.  DUFF:   That will be all. 

Duff makes a memorandum in book as Ross returns to alcove.  Mark Kennaway enters from coffee room. 
MARK:   Pardon me, Inspector.  Mr. Tait has recovered.
Duff nods and turns to occupants of room.
DUFF:   You will kindly wait here a moment.
CAMERA FOLLOWS WITH DUFF - as he enters coffee room.  Patrick Tait is sitting erect on couch, a glass of spirits in
                  his hand, which Martin, the waiter, has just served him.  As Martin passes Duff, he stops him. 

DUFF: Ask Eben, the night watchman, to step in the lounge. I'll be there in a moment.
                  MARTIN: (Mutters) Yes, sir. (Exits quickly)


Duff's eyes follow him for a moment, then he turns to Tait.
DUFF: Feeling better, Mr. Tait? TAIT: (Apologetically) Yes
                  -- a bit too much excitement, I fear. But I still don't know who was murdered! DUFF: Hugh Morris Drake! You occupy
                  number thirty, near his room. What time did you retire?


Tait looks at Mark.
MARK: It was about twelve, Inspector. You see, I read to Mr. Tait every night before
                  he goes to sleep. DUFF: Mr. Tait, what was it you saw in the lounge that brought on this attack? TAIT:
(Becoming very excited - eyes glazing) The attacks come like that. DUFF: Did you see someone in the
                  lounge? TAIT: (Rising -- almost screaming) No -- NO!


He suddenly catches his left side.  Mark steps forward quickly.
MARK:   Inspector - please.  This man is ill.  DUFF:   I'm sorry.  I apologize. 
Tait bows acknowledgement.
Nevertheless, Mr. Tait - I intend to find out what it was that shocked a retired criminal lawyer into a heart attack.
Duff turns from him and re-enters the lounge.  CAMERA MOVES WITH DUFF - to where Eben, the old night watchman has
                  been studying the faces of the men in the room.  First, Lofton, then Ross, then -- suddenly he points.  Duff has been watching
                  him closely. 

EBEN: (Firmly) That's the man.


He is pointing at Keane, who sits up.
KEANE: What do you mean? EBEN: I mean it's you I met on my two o'clock round,
                  last night. DUFF: Is it true? KEANE: (Looking rather anxiously about him) Why,
                  yes. I was up there. You see, I couldn't sleep and wished to borrow a book from Mr. Tait. DUFF: It's pretty old -
                  that wanting-to-read-a-book stuff. Why did you say you'd mistaken the number of your room? KEANE: (Fumbling
                  about) Why, I just said the first thing that came into my head. DUFF: Rather a habit
                  with you, isn't it?


Duff makes memorandum in his book - then dismisses Eben.  Suddenly he wheels on Honywood.
Just one thing more, Mr. Honywood.
Honywood starts violently as Duff approaches him.  Duff holds out small chamois bag filled with pebbles.  He pours a few into
                  his hand for Honywood's inspection.

Do these mean anything to you? HONYWOOD: (Shaking his head) I
                  never saw them before in my life.


Duff returns bag and pebbles to pocket.  Honywood stops to pick up cigarette he has dropped on carpet.    Duff turns
                  to the Minchins, his eyes lighting with interest. 

DUFF: You are - (Looking at list) -- Mr.
                  Minchin? MAX: What about it? SADIE: (Angrily) Max! Nobody's accusin'
                  you! Answer the man's questions! MAX: What for? He's a dick, ain't he? I should help him! DUFF: One moment,
                  please, Mr. Minchin. Allow me to warn you - MAX: (Interrupts) I know - that everything I
                  say will be used against me. I heard that one before. SADIE: Max! MAX: All right. (To Duff)
What do you want to know? DUFF: Where are you from? MAX: We're from Chicago -- and never
                  mind the funny cracks about the daily casualty lists. DUFF: Casualty lists? I don't understand - MAX: That's
                  what they call the newspapers out there -- DUFF: I'll not annoy you with more questions, Mr. Minchin. We're already
                  supplied with considerable information about you.


Elmer Benbow, short, stout -- Germanic ancestry, enters, followed by Mrs. Benbow.  He carries a small motion picture camera.
                   Going to Duff he takes his hand -- shakes it enthusiastically.

BENBOW: Pleased to meet you, Inspector. This will be something to talk about when
                  we get back to Akron. Mixed up in a murder -- Scotland Yard, and all that! Meet the missus! DUFF: (A
                  trifle coldly) How do you do? BENBOW: Just been out trying to get some moving pictures. Anything we can
                  do to help you, Inspector? DUFF: Do you know anything about this murder? BENBOW: If you mean -- did we do
                  it -- we certainly didn't. Mr. Drake was an automobile manufacturer and I make tires. Can you imagine a tire manufacturer
                  killing off one of his best customers? DUFF: (Smiling) Hardly. (He shows Benbow
                  platinum chain and key) Ever seen this before? BENBOW: No. But it was made in Canton, Ohio.
(Turning to wife) That's funny, isnt it? DUFF: What is? Have you seen any member of this party carrying
                  anything like it? BENBOW: No. I just thought it was strange that it was made so near to our home. DUFF: Ah,
                  yes. (To others) That will be all for the present, thank you. None of you must leave London without
                  permission of the Yard.


Duff stands at door as the group passes him.  He watches them closely.  Keane, with his sly face; Honywood, with an assumed
                  nonchalance; Ross, with his frank manner and slight limp; Max Minchin, with his sullen slouch, followed by his be-jeweled
                  wife; smiling Benbow and his mate; then Patrick Tait, now walking with a firm step.  While Duff watches them speculatively,
                  Pamela Potter enters.  She still shows evidence of grief, but is calm now, and wears an air of angry determination. 

PAM:   Is it true, Mr. Duff - that you think the crime was committed by some member of this party?  DUFF:   I regret
                  to say that I do.  PAM:   In that case, I shall cable my mother and my aunt to come to London, and I shall continue
                  with the tour.  DUFF:   Do you think that is advisable?  PAM:   Please don't try to dissuade me, Mr. Duff.
                   I want to help find out who did this cowardly thing.  DUFF:   And we, for our part, may need your assistance. 
PAM:   I might discover some clew - one of them might let something slip.  DUFF:   Quite probable, indeed.  I
                  have a Chinese friend who used to say: "Only a very sly man can shoot off a cannon quietly." 

Mark enters.  He comes to Pam, stands for a moment before her - slowly offers his hand.
MARK: I haven't had the opportunity to tell you how very sorry I am, Miss Potter.
                  If there is anything I may do to help you, please ask me. PAM: (Who has taken his hand) Thank
                  you, Mr. Kennaway.


They leave together -- Duff joins Hayley and finger print man in lobby.


HAYLEY: Not a trace of the chain or the gray coat. DUFF: I thought as much - every
                  one of them had been out of the hotel before we got here. 


Duff and the two men move to the entrance of hotel.  At door, Duff gives some instructions to Kent, the hotel manager.  Kent
                  signifies he understands.  CUT TO UPPER HALLWAY  Martin, the waiter, looks fearfully over his shoulder, takes
                  two pieces of paper from his pocket, and tucks them under carpet on the floor.  CUTBACK TO STREET  As Duff
                  reaches it, coming out of hotel.  Benbow is standing on sidewalk. 

BENBOW:   Say, listen, Inspector -- just turn around and face me, will you?  
Duff turns, sees Benbow smiling, with his motion picture camera leveled and ready for action.
DUFF: (Annoyed) Oh, say -- if you don't mind --
                  BENBOW: Mind? I'm delighted. Just take off the benny, will you -- the lid, you know -- the hat. This light isn't very
                  good. DUFF: But you don't understand -- it isn't customary, you know -- BENBOW: Just let me shoot this --
                  the neighbors back in Akron'll eat it up -- "Inspector from Scotland Yard leaving hotel after murder" -- this'll be a wow!
                  DUFF: If you don't mind, I'd rather not.


Duff turns abruptly to enter his little green police car.
BENBOW: (Laughing genially and calling after him -- turning crank) That's
                  all right; I'll just ontitle this one: "Scotland Yard Inspector refusing to be shot!"


FADE OUT. FADE IN INTERIOR HAYLEY'S OFFICE SCOTLAND YARD Duff,
                  puffing furiously at his pipe, paces about room. Hayley is seated. 


HAYLEY: Too bad we weren't able to hold them. This looks like the end of the case -- just
                  another unsolved murder. DUFF: But we couldn't hold them. The American Ambassador himself asked me -- Where is our
                  proof? -- What was the motive? HAYLEY: Yes -- and tonight they're in Paris, then Nice -- San Remo -- Egypt --Singapore
                  -- Honolulu-- around the world. DUFF: And the murderer traveling with them -- unknown. 


Sergeant Burke enters.  There is a cheerful excited air about him.
BURKE:   I think we've got something, Chief.  The man says he's ready to talk.  DUFF:   Bring him in. 
Burke, in the open door, motions to someone without.  Martin, the waiter from Broome's Hotel, enters, very frightened.  Duff
                  points to a chair.

Sit there, please.
Martin does so.  Duff, rising, stands over him.
Where did you get all that money you've been spending?  Don't tell me you were playing the races!  Come on, the truth!
He jerks Martin to his feet.
MARTIN:   You won't send me to prison, sir?  DUFF:   I'm giving you one chance; where did you get that hundred pounds?
                   MARTIN:   Mr. Honywood gave it to me.  DUFF:  What for?  MARTIN:   I'll tell you everything, sir.
                   At ten o'clock that night I went upstairs with a cablegram for Mr. Drake.  I knocked at his door --  DUFF:   Then
                  what?  MARTIN:   Mr. Honywood opened it.  DUFF:   Honywood in Drake's room?  MARTIN:   Yes, sir. 
                  I gave him the envelope.  He said: "You'll find Mr. Drake in my room.  We have changed rooms for the night." 

Duff gives Hayley a quick glance of exaltation, then to Martin:


DUFF: What then? MARTIN: I knocked on the door of Mr. Honywood's room. Mr.
                  Drake came to the door, took the cablegram and thanked me. DUFF: And the hundred pounds? MARTIN: At seven
                  o'clock the next morning, Mr. Honywood sent for me, handed me two fifty-pound notes and made me promise not to say anything
                  about the exchange of rooms. DUFF: (Turning to Hayley and pounding his fist in his hand) What
                  did I tell you? Drake wasn't murdered in his own room. I was right! HAYLEY: Honywood! DUFF: (His
                  spirits soaring) We have him, my boy! (Looking at his watch) I've just time to catch
                  the night boat to Dieppe. HAYLEY: The party is leaving Paris for Nice, tonight. DUFF: And the Riviera Express
                  will get me there a day later. HAYLEY: (Grasps Duff's hand -- shakes it heartily) Good luck
                  and congratulations! DUFF: (Starting from room) Thanks, old chap.


DISSOLVE TO:  CLOSE SHOT  Man's gray-gloved hands as they search bureau drawer.  Articles are pulled out --
                  perhaps a bit of feminine lingerie -- then thrust back into drawer again.  

DISOLVE TO: Same hands opening black leather case.  Reel of motion picture film is pulled out, then dropped back. 
DISOLVE TO:   Trunk, hands take letter out of tray.  Hands open letter, which reads:   INSERT:
"If anything happens to me, notify my wife, Sybil Conway, Palace Hotel, San Remo." 
Hand crushes letter as if crushing a victim. 
DISSOLVE TO:  Same pair of hands -- they fasten lifeless third hand on revolver with fingers engaging trigger.  A
                  faint wisp of smoke is issuing from barrel of gun. 

DISSOLVE TO:   LOBBY of lounge of Hotel Excelsior Grande in Nice.  Sun shines through windows overlooking terrace
                  garden and Mediterranean.  Pam is holding animated conversation with bearded gendarme, resplendent in gold lace uniform.
                   Dr. Lofton is with them. 

GENDARME:   You noticed nothing in his manner except nervousness?  PAM:   Nothing.  On the contrary, he seemed in
                  good spirits.  GENDARME:   But Mademoiselle --  LOFTON:   I scarcely expected you so soon!  DUFF:
                    Expected me?  LOFTON:   Walter Honywood killed himself in the grounds of this hotel last night. 

Mrs. Luce has joined the group, and overheard Lofton's last remark.
MRS. LUCE: Suicide, your grandmother! Inspector Duff, -- you're needed here! This
                  is another murder! DUFF: Murder? MRS. LUCE: Absolutely. Mr. Honywood expected something to happen -- he tried
                  to leave a letter with me. I suggested that Dr. Lofton was the proper person to give it to, but he insisted that Dr. Lofton
                  was decidedly not the proper person. LOFTON: (Hastily) I telephoned Mrs. Honywood at San
                  Remo -- when she heard the news I believe she fainted.


Duff turns to the gendarme -- draws him aside from group.
DUFF:   If you like, I'll take charge of this -- there was another murder in London, and I believe the two are connected.
CAMERA FOLLOWS AS THEY MOVE DOWN LOBBY  They pass a group in which are Tait, Mark, Ross and the Benbows.  They all
                  appear apprehensive as Duff passes them.  As the two men near telephone booth, Duff pauses. 

I'll report any progress.
Gendarme bows, exits.  Duff enters booth.  As he does so, Sadie and Max Minchin pass booth.
MAX: (Looking towards Duff in booth) Hm! 'Nother guy put
                  on the spot and the place is swarming with bulls. SADIE: Uh - huh. MAX: Gee -- don't it make you homesick?
                  SADIE: Uh - huh.


CUT TO:  INSIDE TELEPHONE BOOTH 
DUFF: It was not suicide, Mrs. Honywood, your husband was murdered.....What! You know
                  who murdered him? He's with the party?....but his name -- his name...What name is he using now?....You don't know.... (Wiggles
                  receiver up and down) Are you still there?.....Very well, I'll be at your hotel at six this evening with the
                  Lofton party.....Thank you.


He hangs up.  As he comes out of booth he almost collides with Lofton.
DUFF:   Doctor, you may leave for San Remo at 4:30 as you had planned.  The party will not be detained here.
Lofton gives him a curious look as Duff walks away.  DISSOLVE TO:  PALACE HOTEL, SAN REMO  Sitting
                  room of Sybil Conway.    She is a beautiful woman,  attractively gowned. 

DUFF: You say the man who killed Honywood is named Jim Everhard? SYBIL: Yes.
                  DUFF: Why did he kill him? SYBIL: I was married to Jim Everhard, but we were unhappy. Then I met Walter Honywood
                  -- and we ran away -- Everhard swore he would kill us both. DUFF: (Takes out chamois bag with pebbles)
Ever see these before? SYBIL: No -- but I know what they mean. When we ran away, I took two bags of diamonds
                  with us, but they weren't Everhard's -- he had stolen them, too. DUFF: All this in South Africa? SYBIL: Yes.
                  DUFF: Are you sure, Mrs. Honywood, that you will be able to recognize Jim Everhard when you see him? SYBIL:
                  Positive. DUFF: Very well. There are some palms just out side the dining room door -- you will have a clear view of
                  the Lofton party. All you need to do is point him out to me. Ready? SYBIL: Yes.


They move from the room to hall, which is in semi-darkness.  They step to the elevator and enter.  It is a narrow cage-like
                  contraption.  Duff presses button -- slowly they begin to descend.

Suddenly there is a sharp explosion above their heads -- Duff gets the fleeting impression of a blurred form above, leaning
                  over shaft.  The woman at his side collapses.  He is just in time to catch her in his arms.  A small object hurtles through
                  the air and lands at his feet.  Duff tries to stop the car but cannot until it stops automatically at first floor.  As he
                  pulls the gates open,

CUT TO:    DARKENED HALLWAY -- FOURTH FLOOR  Mark Kennaway is rapping at door of a room. 
MARK:  Mr. Tait!  Mr. Tait! -- Are you there?
Keane glides up to him.
KEANE: What's happened? MARK: Mr. Tait was here a moment ago. (Catches
                  himself) I was just wondering where he is.


CUT BACK TO:     FIRST FLOOR   Duff places Sybil Conway on a sofa -- opposite elevator.  Pam and one or
                  two other guests hide the body from view of the camera.  

PAM: (To Duff) Shall I call a doctor? DUFF: Too
                  late. The woman is dead.


FADE OUT.  FADE IN  PLATFORM OF STATION AT SAN REMO 
DUFF: You won't forget to write the letters you promised me? PAM: Certainly
                  not. Will you join us again, Inspector? DUFF: Probably. Im going to America. (Smiles) Meanwhile,
                  if anything important comes up, cable me at Scotland Yard. PAM: (Eagerly) Oh, I know something
                  will -- I feel sure we have only to wait -- DUFF: Waiting won't do, we've got to work. As my Chinese friend expresses
                  it: "Sitting man must hold mouth open very long time before roast goose flies in."


Pam laughs and extends her hand.
PAM:   Goodbye, Inspector.  DUFF:   Miss Potter, take care of yourself. 
Guard blows his whistle and compartment doors are banged shut. Duff assists Pam
                  into her compartment and closes door after her. Train starts to pull out. Duff stands on platform watching members of party
                  as they look out of windows of their compartments. One by one they pass him -- Mark as he leans forward, talking to Pam,
                  Benbow, as he stands at window with motion picture camera grinding final shot, Ross with Malacca stick, head of which
                  he taps against his lips and chin; Captain Keane, with his sly, fox-like expression; Max Minchin and bejeweled wife, Max waving
                  him farewell with a knowing wink; Lofton, pulling at beard nervously; and the last face -- Patrick Tait -- worried, old before
                  his time -- white as death. 


As Duff watches the last of party disappear, a puzzled expression comes over his features.
                  In his hand he is holding thin platinum chain and key. As he twirls around finger -- FADE OUT. 


FADE IN:  ON A SERIES OF TRAVEL DISOLVES  
Short FLASHES of Egypt, Pyramids.
DISSOLVE TO:  STREET IN HONGKONG 
Showing Chinese shops, bazaars, members of Dr. Lofton's party walking about looking in shop windows, etc.
Mark Kennaway, holding sunshade over Mrs. Luce, poses in front of a shop with Mr. Benbow
                  taking motion pictures. Mrs. Benbow, smiling, stands beside him.


BENBOW: (Stops cranking) There -- that'll be enough, I guess.
                  MRS. LUCE: Thank you, Mr. Benbow.


Benbow and wife turn to new scenes.  Mrs. Luce smiles at Mark.
Thank you, Mr. Kennaway, very sweet of you to devote yourself to an old lady like
                  me, but if I were a young man -- MARK: If you're going to talk about Miss Potter again, please don't. The subject
                  irritates me. MRS. LUCE: (Looking at him with interest) Oh I'm sorry -- you were together
                  so much until the last few days, I thought-- MARK: (Irritably) So does everyone else, but
                  it isn't so. MRS. LUCE: (Pretending surprise) What isn't. MARK: One can't be nice
                  to a rich girl without everyone's thinking -- MRS. LUCE: What she thinks is all that matters, isn't it? MARK:
                  Probably she thinks so, too. She's deliberately avoiding me. It's a bit of a curse to be born as rich as she is. (Starts
                  with surprise -- hands her sunshade) Will you excuse me, please? MRS. LUCE: (Sees Pam coming)
Oh! I thought you said she was avoiding you. MARK: It's sort of a mutual agreement.


He walks away and enters a jewelry shop.
MRS. LUCE: (Waiting for Pam) I was just talking about you
                  with a very charming young man who doesn't quite know what's the matter with him. PAM: (Somberly)
He knows very well what's the matter with him, and he's proud of it. MRS. LUCE: My dear! All those beautiful
                  moonlight nights together and then -- this? What has occurred? PAM: I was born in the wrong town. In the eyes of superior
                  persons from Boston, I'm insufferably mid-western, and then, of course, there's my misfortune. MRS. LUCE: What do
                  you mean? PAM: It's a sort of disgrace to be the grandchild of a man who had brains enough to make a lot of money.
                  Didn't you know? MRS. LUCE: (Smiling) Has it ever occurred to you, my dear -- that it may
                  be embarrassing for a self-respecting young man to court a wealthy girl? PAM: (As if the idea were quite
                  new to her, pauses, searches Mrs. Luce's eyes) Do you really suppose that's what's the matter with that aristocratic
                  iceberg?
 
MRS. LUCE: I'm positive. (As Pam starts away) Where are
                  you going?PAM: (Happily) Perhaps I can fix this little matter.


She goes to the shop Mark has entered, but near the door stops and saunters casually in apparently unaware of his presence.
                   Near the door she meets Max and Sadie Minchin engaged in an argument.  Sadie, carrying a paste-board box about the
                  size of a bushel basket, faces with angry glare, the equally angry Max. 

SADIE: (Defiantly) Well, anyway, I wanted it and I got it,
                  and I'm goin' to keep it, so what? MAX: Sure, buy a lot of junk you don't even know what to do with. And how are you
                  going to carry that thing all around the world? PAM: (Anxious to conciliate) What did you
                  get, Mrs. Minchin? SADIE: (Pleased with herself) A reading lamp. MAX: (In
                  utter disgust) Yeah -- a readin' lamp. Next thing you know, she'll be wantin' to buy a book to go with it.


He walks angrily out of the shop.
SADIE: (Calling after him) No. We won't either have to buy
                  a book to go with it - 'cause I got a book!


She angrily marches out after him.
PAM: (Pretending surprise at seeing Mark) Oh, Mr. Kennaway
                  - MARK: I'm sorry. PAM: (Pretending amazement) What about? MARK: (Embarrassed)
I thought - perhaps - my presence might annoy you. PAM: We're going to miss this old war when it's over, aren't
                  we? MARK: You won't mind -- you'll be having one with someone else. I can't imagine you without a war. PAM:
                  (Smiling) Am I really so awful? What would a girl from Beacon Street, Boston, do in a case like
                  this? MARK: (Angrily) I wish you'd leave Beacon Street out of it -- it's ceased to be funny.
                  PAM: All right; let's declare an armistice. If you'll forget mid-western barbarians - I'll forget Beacon Street. MARK:
                  (Forced to smile) Will you keep the truce? PAM: Of course! On this party we're forced to
                  meet each other. Let's disguise our true feelings and pretend to be friends. (Impulsively offering her hand)
Is that agreed? MARK: (Takes hand - smiles) Agreed!


At this moment, Chinese proprietor of shop approaches with tray of jewelry.  Pam is immediately interested, and selects a
                  beautiful string of jade.

PAM:   How much is this?  CHINAMAN:   Two hundred and eighty dollars.  
Pam holds it up for Mark's inspection.  
PAM:  Beautiful, isn't it?  
Mark nods, turns away -- it is too rich for his pocket.  Pam picks up another piece of jewelry.  As she does so, another Chinaman
                  enters scene.  Suddenly he breaks into an excited string of Chinese; points in direction of street, concludes his speech with
                  the English words: JIM EVERHARD.  Pam starts and looks in direction of street.  FROM HER ANGLE we see five members
                  of Lofton party as they move past shop.  In the group are Keane, Lofton, Tait, Ross and Benbow.  Pam turns to Mark excitedly.
                    

PAM: Jim Everhard! The name of the man who killed my grandfather! (To
                  Chinaman) Which one is Jim Everhard?


The Chinaman shrugs; indicates he doesn't understand.  Pam rushes to door, followed by Mark.  The party has moved about twenty
                  yards away.  

PAM: (Excitedly) That's the man Inspector Duff wants - who
                  was he looking at? Which one did he mean? MARK: I'm sorry I couldn't tell.


Pam turns back to door of the shop to question the Chinaman, but he has disappeared.  She hurries after the group.
                   Mark follows.  When she reaches a point about ten yards from them, she calls sharply: 

PAM:   Jim Everhard!
She waits to see who turns at the name.  All five men do.  Her trick has failed.  But she tries to carry it through - looking
                  from one to the other, she says:  

The Chinaman in that shop pointed out Jim Everhard - I was hoping to catch him before
                  all of you, but I know him - (She turns quickly to Mark) Come on -


They walk away, leaving the five men staring at one another.  CUT TO:  Mark and Pam hurrying down the street.
                   

MARK: I'm sorry you did that - you don't realize what you've done. PAM: What?
                  MARK: You've put yourself in danger. Jim Everhard is in that group - he thinks you know him, but you don't. We don't
                  know whom to watch - and you're liable to be next. PAM: (As the deadly possibility dawns upon her)
Where's the telegraph office? I'm going to cable Inspector Duff.


As they start off -  DISSOLVE TO  INTERIOR CABLE OFFICE NEARBY -  Pam takes cable blank, stands at
                  a high desk directly in front of a stand lamp, and starts to write a cable.  Mark stands beside her.  As he glances
                  around, he sees a gloved hand holding a pistol around the jamb of the side door, the barrel aimed straight at Pam.  CUT
                  TO  Mark - swiftly seizing Pam and whirling her out of range, just as the weapon is discharged shattering the lamp,
                  before which Pam was standing.  Frightened, Mark holds her a moment, then releases her and runs to the door - looking
                  up and down the street.  He sees no one who might have made the attempt.  He then turns back to her with a blank, worried
                  face.  

PAM: (Faintly) Thank you. I guess -- I guess you saved my
                  life.


She seems so frightened that Mark runs to her and takes her in his arms protectingly,
                  as we - FADE OUT. FADE IN 


CHAN'S OFFICE POLICE STATION, HONOLULU.   Chan is seated at a table -- before him is Duff's brief case and papers.
                   Duff is pacing the room, smoking his pipe.   

DUFF: When Miss Potter's cable reached me, I was on my way to Tacoma. I changed my
                  plans, flew to San Francisco and took the first boat. I'm glad I arrived before anything happened to her. CHAN: (Leans
                  across the table) When she shouted the name Jim Everhard at Hongkong - no man looked around -- quick?


DUFF: No. She tried to trick him, but failed. What should she have done, Charlie?
                  CHAN: Too late now. Advice after mistake is like medicine after dead man's funeral. DUFF: Strange situation,
                  Charlie - that the man who committed that murder has the nerve to remain with the party. CHAN: Yes. Only very brave
                  mouse makes nest in cat's ear. DUFF: (Looks at his watch) This visit will remain a pleasant
                  memory, Charlie, but the Lofton party sails at ten. Where can I call a taxi? CHAN: (Rising) Not
                  to be considered. I will take you. I have brand new, second-hand 1919 Model Y. DUFF: Model Why? CHAN: Must
                  be -- that's what everyone ask me, -- why. (Goes to door of room) I will get. (He exits)



Duff bends over the table and returns his papers to brief case. As he does so, a gloved hand holding a revolver is seen outlined
                  against an open window overlooking back alley of police station. The gun is aimed directly at Duff, and is fired. Duff whirls,
                  staggers a step or two in direction of window and lunges forward to floor. An instant later a small object is thrown through
                  the window, lands on floor beside Duff's body.   

Chan opens door of office, sees Duff lying on the floor, gives a startled exclamation - runs forward and bends over him. 
                   Duff's face is pale as death.  Quickly Chan feels pulse, then reaches up and presses button on desk.  Again he bends
                  over the prostrate figure of his friend.   At Duff's side, Chan's eyes come to rest on a replica of the three little
                  Chinese monkeys.  He picks them up, and as he looks at them, their significance as a threat dawns upon him.  He puts them
                  in his pocket.  

The door opens -- a native Hawaiian policeman enters.  
CHAN:   Telephone for ambulance and surgeon at once, then ask the chief to come here.  Quick!
Chan looks helplessly about, then his eyes take in the window and the misty darkness outside.  On the table is Duff's open
                  brief case.  Some of the papers are still in the case, others are strewn about carelessly, scattered by the wind.    Chan
                  quickly restores papers to case.  As he does so, the Chief enters. 

CHIEF:   What's this, Charlie?  
His eyes light on the prostrate figure of Duff.  
CHAN: Shot in back from bullet entering from there. (Points to open window)
                  Poor Inspector Duff. He comes to quiet city of Honolulu in search of murderer. Now this -- CHIEF: Shot
                  down in the Honolulu police station! Impertinence! CHAN: (Nodding) Even worse than that
                  -- insult! Shot down in very office of Inspector of Detectives. (Indicating himself) I am laughing
                  stock of world -- very well, then, I shall sail tonight on 'President Arthur.' 


Chan starts strapping up Duff's brief case.
CHIEF: But Charlie -- you can't do that! CHAN: (Interrupting)
Please omit argument, otherwise resignation effective at once. No time to lose. (Grabbing phone - giving
                  number) Hello! -- This you, Henry?....honorable father speaking...I sail half-hour on 'President Arthur'....what?....kindly
                  omit surprised feelings....pack bag with amazing speed -- tooth-brush, other suit, razor. Bring bag with your mother to dock.
                  You will understand speed is essential. Thank you so much. (Hangs up receiver)


CHIEF: But Charlie, listen! This job is dangerous! The man's a killer! CHAN: If I
                  do not have that man before San Francisco, retire forever in sack-cloth with ashes. 


Chan kneels beside Duff who stirs slightly.
DUFF: (Whispering faintly) Charlie! CHAN: Tell me,
                  Inspector -- did you see face of assailant? DUFF: (Half unconscious) Lofton -- Tait -- Keane
                  -- Ross -- Benbow -- 


There is an expression of increasing amazement on Chan's face, then Duff continues:
Which one is it - Charlie?  
He relapses into unconsciousness.
CHAN:   Take best care -- get to hospital -- send me wireless.  If he wakes, tell him Charlie Chan carries on.  
As Chan starts from office with Duff's brief case under his arm -  DISSOLVE TO:  Sadie and Max near small
                  fruit stand.  The vendor is absent.  Max and Sadie are examining a box of avocados.  Sadie's arms are so full of bundles she
                  cannot use her hands. 

SADIE: (To Max, who is bending over fruit) Before you buy
                  them, you better pinch them to see if they're soft. MAX: (Looking at her with compassion) To
                  see if they're soft? There's nobody lookin' -- what about just pinchin' them? 


Chan notes this conversation.  Sadie, suddenly aware of Chan's nearness, nudges Max and nods toward Chan.  Max, who has already
                  picked up one of the avocados, and is about to take another, looks around at Chan.  

MAX: Oh, hello Chink! How's the laundry business? CHAN: (Smiles)
Pretty much like yours -- quietly picking up. MAX: (To cover) Wonder where the guy
                  is that runs this stand? 


Max puts avocados back on stand and goes aboard.  Chan stands looking after them.  Mrs. Chan and Henry enter to him.
                   The boat is just about to sail; steward beats warning gong.  

MRS. CHAN: (Looking at her husband with timid eyes) Wheh
                  you go now, please? CHAN: (Giving her a kindly pat on back) Events explode suddenly like
                  firecrackers in the face of innocent passerby. Do not worry. 


She holds up little travelling bag to him.
MRS. CHAN: Not enough clo'es. You must wait and get big trunk. CHAN: (Shakes
                  head firmly) No. Too late to dig well when honorable house is on fire. 


He kisses her in Occidental fashion, then turns to Henry. In my absence
                  you will show your mother every deference, and guard family well. 


HENRY: Okay. And say, Pop -- can I use your bus 'til you come back? CHAN:
                  (Nodding) Ha! I foresaw this request. But please treat bus with unusual kindness. 


The deep whistle of the boat is heard.  Chan turns toward gangplank and starts up.  He waves to his family.  FADE
                  OUT.  FADE IN  Chan and the Captain are walking along the deck the same night.  The ship is on its way to
                  San Francisco.  

CAPTAIN:   I have sent word to the party asking them to wait for you in the smoking room.  I'm back of you, Charlie, I hope
                  you get your man.  CHAN:   You invent picture of very happy event.  Thank you so much. 

He bows and leaves.  CUT TO:  INTERIOR SMOKING ROOM  The men of the Lofton party are assembled.  There
                  is an atmosphere of sullen resentment. 

BENBOW: More questions -- and what good does it do? MAX: That's all right.
                  Answer them -- only don't tell em nothin'. LOFTON: For my part, I'm sick of questions. Nothing has ever come of them,
                  and nothing ever will. CHAN: (Enters and bows, smilingly) May I extend courteous greeting.
                  You are surprised to find me here -- I also. Yesterday Inspector Duff come to Honolulu -- Paradise of Pacific. Tonight, history
                  repeat itself. Serpent appears in Paradise - Inspector Duff is in hospital, insultingly wounded. And so, reluctantly, I must
                  force my inspeakable presence upon you. So sorry -- but must ask questions. 


TAIT: Allow me, sir -- to point out to you that we are no longer under the jurisdiction
                  of the Honolulu authorities. CHAN: Of course, if anyone has something to hide -- TAIT: I won't allow you to
                  maneuver me into that position. Why do you imagine I have anything to hide? CHAN: (Smiles and shrugs)
Man seldom scratches where he does not itch. TAIT: (Resentfully) I'm
                  simply reminding you that there is such a thing as proper legal procedure. CHAN: Which is always criminal's best friend.
                  We understand that, you and I, Mr. Tait -- do we not? LOFTON: I don't blame Mr. Tait; from the very first we've been
                  annoyed by questions by incompetent police officials. CHAN: (Bows) Stupidity humbly acknowledged.
                  But sometimes dull stone makes very sharp knife. ROSS: Perhaps, Mr. Chan, it would be advisable to postpone the cross-examination
                  until your suspects are in better humor. CHAN: Possibly you are right. Time does not press and talk will not cook
                  rice. 


He dismisses them with a polite gesture. 
Thank you - so much.
All turn to leave except Minchin.
MAX:   You seen what happened to Inspector Duff, didn't you?  You better get yourself some iron underwear -- you know B.V.D's.
                   CHAN:   Oh, I see.  B.V.D. - before very dead.  Thank you, so much. 

He bows pleasantly, and as Chan walks from the smoking room --   DISSOLVE TO:   Chan, in the interior of
                  his promenade deck cabin, in the act of opening Inspector Duff's brief case.   From the case he takes a small chamois
                  bag and the platinum chain to which is attached the safe-deposit box key.   He places the brief case on top of a
                  dresser directly under the window, and moves under the light to better examine the chain and key.  He places this in his pocket,
                  then opens the bag and pours the small pebbles from the bag into the palm of his hand.   

Chan looks up suddenly, and in the mirror of his dressing table, he sees the reflection of the window through which appears
                  a hand -- the same hand that searched in the trunks in Nice, and placed the revolver in the lifeless hand of Honywood. The
                  hand is reaching for the brief case. It has the case in its grasp when suddenly Chan wheels and jumps for the porthole. He
                  is just in time to wrench the case from the intruder's grasp, and tears the glove from it at the same time. He throws the
                  case down quickly, then jumps up to the window and looks out onto the dimly lighted deck. About thirty yards away he sees
                  a man leaning over the rail. The man's back is toward him, but as he turns his head, Chan sees it is Dr. Lofton.   He
                  studies Lofton a moment, then returns to the light and very carefully examines the glove.   He is startled by a sharp,
                  insistent knock on his door. He goes to it, opens it, and discovers the frightened Pam.  

PAM:  Mr. Chan --  CHAN:   You're frightened - what has happened?  Come in. 
Pam enters and closes the door after her. 
PAM:   Some person has been in my stateroom.  CHAN:   How do you know?  PAM:   I was out of it for a moment
                  -- when I came back, this was on my dresser! 

She shows him a little cardboard box with a cover over it.
I thought perhaps Mrs. Luce had given me a present, but she knows nothing about it.  That's why I've come to you.
Chan takes the box from her, removes the lid and holds up the famous three Chinese monkeys with their paws respectively over
                  their eyes, ears and mouth.

CHAN: It is a warning - (Looking at monkeys) 'See nothing,
                  hear nothing - say nothing.'


(Chan exits)  FADE OUT.  FADE IN  Chan is shown on deck in the morning sunshine.  The wireless
                  operator comes to him and hands him a paper. 

OPERATOR: Wireless for you, Mr. Chan, from Honolulu. CHAN: (An
                  expression of worry crossing his face) From Honolulu... (Opening envelope and reading with staring
                  eyes -- expression of pleasure comes over his face) From friend in hospital -- thank you, so much.


He turns and hurries along deck where Pam and Mark are playing shuffle-board.
PAM: (To Mark, teasingly) Well, at least you might pretend
                  that I don't annoy you. (She sees Chan) Any news yet, Mr. Chan? CHAN:
                  Yes. Cable says operation is success. Honorable Duff doing very well. PAM: I'm so glad to hear that! Any developments
                  in the case? CHAN: Not yet -- Patience and a mulberry leaf become a silk shawl. (He bows and exits) 


DISSOLVE TO:  Chan in stateroom, as he searches rapidly in the baggage and bureau drawers.    At last, from
                  under the mattress of the berth, he finds a gray glove, mate to the one he tore from the hand that came through his window
                  on the previous night.  He has just stopped to examine it, when the door is suddenly pushed open, and Lofton confronts him.
                  

LOFTON:   I won't submit to this sort of thing!  What are you doing in my cabin?  CHAN:   Only trying to seize truth
                  with my fumbling hands.  Will you kindly explain this interesting exhibit? 

He holds out glove to Lofton.
LOFTON: What does that mean? CHAN: That is what I wish to find out. Is it
                  your glove? LOFTON: No. Are you pretending you found it here? CHAN: Pretending -- no. I did find it here.
                  You have never seen it before? LOFTON: Certainly not. What do you hope to accomplish with this absurd trick? Do you
                  imagine you can frighten me into confessing something? CHAN: Oh -- have you something you would not wish to confess?
                  LOFTON: No. Don't tell me you suspect me of complicity in this thing! It's absurd -- impossible! CHAN:
                  I am only trying to find the criminal who committed these crimes, and punish him. (He looks keenly at Lofton)
He who feeds the chicken, deserves the egg. 


He bows.
Thank you -- so much.
As he exits from cabin --   DISSOLVE TO:   Chan on deck, under the dim deck lights.  He stands partly concealed,
                  watching the door of a stateroom.  His figure retreats from view as the door is stealthily opened.  Keane emerges, looks carefully
                  forward and aft on the deck, then carrying a small bundle, steals quietly towards the rail and near where Chan is concealed.
                    He is about to throw the bundle overboard, when Chan, with a leap, restrains him.  The effect upon Keane is devastating.
                   

Chan unrolls the bundle -- it is a gray coat with the right-hand pocket torn.  
KEANE: What do you want? CHAN: This gray coat - with torn pocket. You should
                  have disposed of this, long ago. KEANE: What do you mean? CHAN: Watchman in Broome's Hotel, London -- tore
                  right-hand pocket of murderer's suit. KEANE: I know he did - I heard it at the inquest. That's why I tried to get
                  rid of this. (Eagerly) Please believe me - someone just tore the pocket of this coat - someone's
                  trying to put suspicion on me. If this were the suit, I wouldn't have kept it. Do you think I'm a fool? CHAN: (Shrugs)
Who shall say? Every man must wear out at least one pair of fool shoes. 


He smiles blandly and makes a little bow.  
Thank you so much.
The apparently terrified Keane watches Chan with staring eyes as he bows himself away, carrying the coat.  DISSOLVE
                  TO:  EXTERIOR TAIT'S CABIN  Chan knocks on the door and enters.  He finds Mark busy with his tie.  On
                  the dressing table is a neat little silver frame, enclosing Pam's photograph. 

MARK: Come in, Mr. Chan. (Adjusting tie) I'm just getting
                  ready to go out and give the ladies a treat.


Chan's eyes smilingly rest upon the photograph of Pamela.
CHAN:   May I wish luck?  Good wife best household furniture.  MARK:   If you mean Miss Potter - there isn't a chance.
                   There's something I wanted to tell you.  CHAN:   Yes? 

Mark opens dresser drawer - takes out two sets of Chinese monkeys, shows them to Chan.
MARK: Miss Pamela told me you found one of these beside Inspector Duff, and that another was
                  put in her stateroom as a warning. CHAN: Where did Mr. Tait buy these?


MARK: That's what I can't understand. He says he didn't buy them, and
                  has no idea how they got into this room. What do you make of it? CHAN: Very strange. But wait --


Chan drops to his knees, and drags from beneath Mark's berth a suitcase on which is pasted a label from the Great Eastern
                  Hotel in Calcutta.  Near the label are the initials "M.K."  He points to label.

You will regard that, please. MARK: (Moving closer) What
                  about it? CHAN: Please feel with fingers. 


Mark bends down and rubs his hand over the label.  He frowns.
MARK: Feels like a key. CHAN: It is a key - duplicate of one
                  found in hand of murdered man in London.


He takes the duplicate key with the platinum chain attached from his pocket, and shows it to Mark, who stares in surprise.
MARK:   Who put that on my bag?
He looks around cabin for a moment, then his eyes rest on a pair of pajamas on the berth occupied by Tait.  He continues:
Do you think -- can it be possible -- that Mr. Tait -- Why don't you ask him to explain?
                  CHAN: Not yet. Man should never hurry 'cept when going to catch flea. (Pointing to key) Keep
                  open eye on this -- it will be removed before ship reaches port. Let me know moment it is gone. MARK: I will, Mr.
                  Chan. CHAN: Thank you so much. (He exits) 


CUT TO:  Pam standing near a flight of stairs leading up to the deck above.  As Chan emerges from Tait's room,
                  she motions to him urgently.  Chan goes to her. 

CHAN: (As he approaches her) You have found something? PAM:
                  I don't know whether it's important or not - have you the little bags of pebbles? CHAN: (Takes bags from
                  pocket) These? PAM: (Takes one of them - looks at it carefully) Yes. They're
                  the same. I was in Mrs. Benbow's cabin today, and she has a bag exactly like them. CHAN: Maybe very important. Are
                  you sure -- PAM: I'm positive. Even the same color draw string. She uses it for a jewelry bag. CHAN: Does
                  she know you saw it? PAM: Yes - that's why I thought I better tell you. When she saw me looking at it, she picked
                  it up quickly and put it away. Do you think, Mr. Chan, that Mr. Benbow could be -- 


Suddenly, Chan looks up, as a slight noise above attracts his attention.  Then swiftly he seizes Pam and whirls her out of
                  the way.  As he does so, a long knife flashes down, and stands quivering in the deck at their feet. 

Chan swiftly but guardedly runs up the stairs along the deck to the other side. He sees a limping man making a hurried escape,
                  a cane held in his left hand, and tapping sharply on the deck. The man hastily descends stairs to lower deck.   Hurriedly,
                  Chan descends the stairs and runs swiftly around the deck to intercept the man. At the corner of the companionway, he encounters
                  Ross, walking leisurely along - smoking a cigar. His attitude and expression cause Ross to speak.   

ROSS: (Calmly and pleasantly) What's wrong, Mr. Chan? CHAN:
                  (Still showing amazement) I thought -- you were on upper deck a moment ago. ROSS: No, I
                  just came out of my cabin. Why do you ask? CHAN: (A sudden change coming over him - he looks at Ross'
                  cane which he carries in his right hand) Oh, I'm so sorry, Mr. Ross. I have made mistake. I just saw man with
                  cane in wrong hand, and no rubber tip. You wear rubber tip on your cane, always, not so? ROSS: Yes - always. It's
                  safer for a man of my disability. I always carry it on the lame side. CHAN: (Bows) Of course.
                  Please overlook incident. Someone, I think, is trying to impersonate you. ROSS: Really? (He laughs)
Well, someone has been trying to throw suspicion on all the other members of this party. Apparently it is my turn
                  now. CHAN: Apparently. Please excuse. Thank you so much. 


FADE OUT.  FADE IN  Chan is seated in corner of salon, very downcast in appearance.  FOG HORN BLOWS.
                  

MAX: (Entering) Hello, Inspector! CHAN: (Listlessly)
'Lo. MAX: Running into more fog, huh? CHAN: (Uninterested) Yes. MAX:
                  Well, we'll be in San Francisco in a couple of hours. Have you nailed your man yet? CHAN: Nailed -- no. Guess I'm
                  trying to hunt rabbit with blind dog. MAX: Cheer up, Charlie -- maybe you'll catch him. CHAN: Maybe? (Shrugs)
Every maybe has a wife called Maybe-Not. MAX: Oh, that reminds me -- My wife and I are throwing a farewell
                  dinner party tonight to celebrate the end of the tour. Will you join us? CHAN: (Listlessly) Thank
                  you so much. 


Max exits.  Chan resumes his gloomy retrospection.  Pam enters to him.
PAM: Well, we're almost there, Mr. Chan. CHAN: (Unhappily)
Sorry -- yes. PAM: And nothing yet? CHAN: Suspicion -- yes. Proof -- no. I have no evidence to hold
                  anyone in San Francisco. Ho-hum, I imagine I am very clever man -- now find slight mistake. 


He touches his forehead with his finger as he says lugubriously --
Big head is only a good place for very large headache. (Turns and smiles
                  at Pam) And how is case of irritating young man? PAM: (Smiling) Well,
                  there's still hope. He's just asked me to meet him on deck. CHAN: (Pleasantly) Ah! Opportunity
                  knocks on door again. What if young man proposes? PAM: (Eagerly) Do you think he will? CHAN:
                  In what way should I know? PAM: I wish he would. CHAN: And then -- what? PAM: I'd refuse, of course
                  - for the sake of my wounded pride. CHAN: (Shaking his head) Woman's heart is like a needle
                  at bottom of sea. PAM: Oh, we're not so hard to fathom. In a way, of course, it will be a pity - he can be so nice
                  when he wants to be. CHAN: (Smiling) Can he? PAM: But he seldom wants to be. Shall
                  I see you at Mr. Minchin's dinner? CHAN: I think so. PAM: 'Bye. (She exits) 


Chan continues his unhappy staring into space.  His shoulders slump - he resumes his seat.   Suddenly a startled
                  expression flashes across his face.  He rises to his feet and utters several startled sentences in Chinese.  The next moment
                  he patters out of scene as we -   DISSOLVE TO:   Chan, entering his stateroom.  He goes to a little desk
                  - takes out envelopes, paper - seizes pen and starts to write.   INSERT: 

"DEAR MR. LOFTON:  TO SAVE EMBARRASSMENT I  WILL SAY NOTHING TO ANYONE AND WILL  NOT MAKE ARREST UNTIL SHIP
                  DOCKS.   CHARLIE CHAN."

He folds the letter, seals and addresses it to Dr. Lofton - then quickly starts another letter with identically the same words,
                  addressed to Mr. Benbow. As he completes this -   DISSOLVE TO:   Chan, sealing a fifth envelope - showing
                  five addresses to Mr. Tait, Dr. Lofton, Keane, Ross and Benbow.   CUT TO:   EXTERIOR DECK   It is
                  misty, and the fog horn is blowing at intervals. Mark and Pam stand together near the rail. 

PAM:   Are you glad the trip's over?  MARK:   Yes.  When I turn Tait over to his son, tonight -- I'm free. 
THE FOG HORN BLOWS AGAIN
PAM: (Smiling up at him) Are you glad our quarrel's over,
                  too? MARK: (Smiles) Is it? I don't like quarrels. PAM: (Accusingly)
You Pacifist! MARK: Perhaps I should have said -- I don't like quarreling with you. PAM: That's better.
                  MARK: Well -- if I shouldn't see you again -- PAM: (Quickly) Oh, I hope you will.
                  MARK: In case I don't -- I just want to tell you -- it's been fun knowing you. You're awfully nice, you know. I don't
                  know what I'd've done --


FOG HORN BLOWS  Mark tries to talk through shriek of horn, shouting indistinct words.  Pam, with an ear cocked toward
                  him, tries to hear what he says.  Suddenly, the sound of the horn ceases. 

PAM: Of course I will, if you really want me to. MARK: (Surprised)
Want you to what? PAM: Marry you -- isn't that what you were asking me? MARK: Oh, no. I was saying
                  - I supposed you'd marry some nice boy and be very happy. PAM: Oh -- I'm sorry. MARK: (Suddenly)
                  But look here! If I had asked you, you mean you'd really have said yes? PAM: But you just explained you didn't ask
                  me. MARK: If I do ask you -- will you promise you'll say yes again? PAM: If I promise to say yes -- will you
                  promise you'll ask me again? 


Mark impulsively crushes her in his arms and kisses her.  FOG HORN BLOWS  Chan enters. 
CHAN: (Coughing discreetly, and smiling widely) So sorry
                  to interrupt bitter quarrel --


They separate -
PAM: Oh, it isn't exactly a quarrel, any more -- CHAN: (To Mark)
                  May I ask great favor? MARK: Certainly. What? CHAN: When I leave Mr. Minchin's dinner - come quickly after
                  me, please. I need help very much. MARK: Yes, of course. CHAN: Thank you so much. (He exits)
                  


Pam and Mark immediately resume their embrace --   DISSOLVE TO:   DINING SALON   The Minchin dinner
                  has reached the stage of demi-tasse and cigarettes.   The table is lavishly decorated - Max doing the thing properly,
                  even providing comic paper hats for the guests.   At the table are the Benbows, Dr. Lofton, Ross, Tate, Keane, Mark,
                  Pam, Mrs. Luce -- the Minchins.   AS WE DISOLVE IN -   We hear the buzz of conversation - the clink of glasses.
                    Dr. Lofton is speaking:  

LOFTON:   But, barring these unhappy occurrences, I hope you have experienced some measure of the enjoyment you all anticipated
                  when we began this world tour.  I thank you.

He sits down to the accompaniment of general applause.
MAX:   Wonder where our Chinese friend is?  I invited him to the dinner and he said he was coming.  PAM:   Oh, I think
                  he'll be here.  He told me he would.  MAX:   How about a few words from Mr. Keane? 

As Keane rises -  CUT TO  Chan, crouching in corridor slipping one of the addressed envelopes under a door.
                   He hurries to another door across the corridor and slips the remaining envelope under that door.  CUT TO
                   DINING SALON:  Ross is just concluding his speech: 

ROSS: ...in conclusion, I admit that the murder of Mr. Drake in that stuffy room in
                  London, was a mysterious occurrence; (Chan enters in time to overhear - and quietly slips into his seat at the
                  table) but to me, it seems stranger still to realize that at this moment we are dining with a man who has committed
                  three murders, attempted a fourth - who sits here listening to us, and who, within an hour, will walk off this ship still
                  free and still unidentified and unpunished. (He pauses) And now I think we should hear from our
                  generous host, Mr. Minchin.


There is applause as Max rises.
MAX: Ladies and gents; long's the subject been brung up I don't mind tellin' you that
                  with all this shootin' goin' on, and all these people gettin' bumped off, me and the wife figured we might as well stayed
                  home. (He pauses) How about a few words from our friend, the Chinese Dick? TAIT:
(Sarcastically) Yes. Perhaps he will explain why he failed to get his man. 


Chan Rises.
CHAN: Ladies and gentlemen: Man who fights law always loses; same as grasshopper is
                  always wrong in argument with chicken. It is only once in a very long time that man bites own nose, but happy to say - murderer
                  has kindly done so. You have all asked questions; perhaps I can now entertain with few explanations. (Pausing,
                  glancing around at members of party) Mr. Drake was murdered in London by mistake. How? Murderer entered wrong
                  room. He intended to kill Honywood. Why? Because Honywood ran away with his wife, and when pair went, they stole two bags
                  of diamonds. (Holding out the two bags of pebbles) These were to remind him of what they had done.
(He pauses a moment) Murderer's name was Jim Everhard - formerly illicit diamond buyer, South Africa. I have
                  informed him that to save embarrassment, I will not mention his present name and will not make arrest until ship docks. Thank
                  you so much.


There is a general look of consternation among the diners, then one after another they turn to look at each other, each wondering
                  which is the murderer.  Chan, without any formality, bows and quickly exits.  Almost immediately, Mark rises, speaks a word
                  to Pam and follows.

MRS. LUCE:   Well, sitting here in the company of a person who did these things, gives me the creeps.  I'm going to my cabin.
There is a general breaking up of the dinner.  Diners rise and start crowding round Max and Sadie, as we  CUT TO:
                   SHIP'S ANCHOR CHAIN AND anchor as it rattles through the hawser and plunges into the dark waters of San Francisco
                  Bay.  CUT TO:  A SMALL LAUNCH  which comes alongside.  The health inspectors clamber up a rope ladder
                  which has been thrown over the side.  CUT TO:  INTERIOR TAIT'S CABIN - Mark is in scene.  Chan has just
                  pulled out Mark's bag, and is showing the label to Mark.  IN A CLOSE SHOT We see that it has been cut out, and
                  key removed. 

CHAN:   Just as I thought; key is gone.  MARK:   Where is it?  CHAN:   Where I want it -- now.  On the person
                  of murderer. 

Mark looks over at Tait's berth, where his hand luggage is neatly piled.
MARK:   Tait --
He glances quickly at Chan. Mark sees the envelope on the floor which Chan has shoved
                  under Tait's door. He is about to pick it up when Chan stops him.


CHAN:   No -- leave that.
They are startled by the piercing shriek of a woman, followed by two more in quick succession.
MARK: (Startled) Pamela!


As the two start out of cabin door on deck, loud yells are heard.


MAN'S VOICE: Man overboard! Man overboard! MARK: (Seizing Chan's
                  arm) Too late! That's your man -- he's gone. 


They run to the rail where the spotlight of launch is now playing on water over the ship's side.  Three or four life-preservers,
                  with ropes attached to them, have been thrown.  In the center of these, badly frightened, is a man.  A man in the
                  launch hauls the figure over to the side to safety. 

MARK: (Leaning over the rail as he discovers it is Benbow)
                  Is that your man, Mr. Chan? CHAN: No. Come quickly. 


They exit down the deck.  CUT TO:  FLASH of Mrs. Benbow, as she tearfully explains to a small group of passengers:
                  

MRS. BENBOW:   All the way round the world, I've been telling that idiot not to sit on the rail!
CUT TO:   STATEROOM OF DR. LOFTON   As he enters, stoops, and picks up letter addressed to him.  He opens
                  it - as he reads, an expression of startled amazement comes over his face.  He sits, staring straight ahead, with the expression
                  of a man desperately worried.   CUT TO:   KEANE IN HIS STATEROOM   He is holding a similar letter
                  in his hand.  An expression of terror comes over his face, he stares ahead, as        if paralyzed with fear.   CUT
                  TO:   ROSS IN HIS STATEROOM   We see him reading the letter.  He sinks on the side of his berth, with an
                  expression of incredulous astonishment on his face.  He stares wide-eyed into space.   CUT TO:   FLASH OF
                  TAIT IN HIS STATEROOM   As he stoops to pick up the envelope on the floor of his cabin.  He tears it open, reads
                  it, crumples it in his hand with a snarl, and then stands, a picture of fury.  

CUT TO:   INTERIOR CHAN'S CABIN   Chan is showing Mark a dummy silhouette which he has rigged up at his
                  window, where the silken shades are drawn tight.  It consists of a broom, a coat hanger with Chan's coat hung on it, a heavy
                  Turkish towel - surmounted by Chan's hat.  

Chan picks up a long light cord, with a button switch at one end - a double socket at the other.  He screws socket with the
                  lamp into the electric light fixture, and then with the switch tests it, flashing light on and off.  Next, he takes the long
                  cord, opens the door of his cabin, looks up and down the deck, which is in misty darkness, beckons Mark to follow him, closes
                  the door.  He starts to lay the cord across the deck in direction of a lifeboat, immediately opposite his cabin.  Chan and
                  Mark clamber into the lifeboat.  We see his cabin suddenly lighted up, and clearly defined against the silk curtain,
                  is the silhouette of Chan.  Chan presses the button and the light in the cabin is extinguished, leaving it in darkness. 

CUT TO:  CORNER OF MAIN COMPANIONWAY  Dr. Lofton meets Pam. 
LOFTON: (In an angry tone) Have you seen that Chinese detective
                  anywhere? PAM: (Rather startled at his tone) No, I haven't. Not since dinner. 


Lofton turns away.  CUT TO:  KEANE, on a dimly lighted deck.  He meets Sadie Minchin. 
KEANE:   Excuse me, please -- do you know where Mr. Chan is?  SADIE:   No, I ain't seen 'im.  What do you want with
                  him? 

Keane doesn't answer - turns away. Sadie watches him with growing suspicion. CUT
                  TO: CORNER OF SMOKING ROOM Tait enters, apparently very furious. He looks about as if searching for someone,
                  then turns angrily and exits. CUT TO: THE LIFEBOAT - showing Chan and Mark, as they crouch, watching Chan's
                  dark stateroom opposite. A tall figure comes stamping down deck, stops at door of Chan's cabin; knocks furiously on
                  the door, and receiving no response, looks about and dashes out of scene. The man is seen to be Keane. Mark turns
                  to Chan with a look of inquiry. Chan makes a sign to Mark for silence. Another figure is seen approaching. It is Mr.
                  Tait. He stops at Chan's door; knocks. A deck hand comes to him. 


TAIT:   Have you seen that Chinaman anywhere?  DECKHAND:   No sir. 
Deckhand goes on. Tait looks angrily up and down the deck, and in turn goes away. Mark
                  looks at Chan who again gives him the signal for silence. Suddenly, along the misty deck, a stealthy sound is heard.
                  A third person approaches. As Chan catches sight of a tall figure, he snaps on the light of the cabin, showing the silhouette.
                  The figure glides up to the window -- HIS BACK TO CAMERA - we see a heavy gun raised, aimed at the center of the silhouette
                  of Chan - and a shot is fired. Instantly, into the scene, leap Chan and Mark, pinioning the figure from behind. Chan
                  wrests the gun from the man, holding his arms behind him, while Mark quickly opens door of cabin. They force the man into
                  the room just as the Captain and two of the crew race up to the door. In the light of the cabin, they turn the man
                  around. WE SEE THAT IT IS --- ROSS. 


Ross stands for an instant, with a wild, menacing glare in his eyes.  Then, suddenly he makes a leap - as if to escape.  He
                  is seized by all, and is held until Chan places the handcuffs on his wrists.

CHAN: (Takes coat from hanger - points to hole in back - says sorrowfully)
Too bad - my best suit -- Mr. Everhard. CAPTAIN: Everhard? I thought his name was Ross. CHAN: No.
                  Jim Everhard - formerly of South Africa. (He takes the figure of the three monkeys from his pocket) Your
                  warning, Mr. Everhard - see nothing, hear nothing, say nothing. Maybe should be 'nother monkey - DO NOTHING! MARK:
                  How about the key, Mr. Chan? CHAN: Ah - thank you, so much. 


He takes from his pocket, the safe-deposit key on the platinum chain, and shows it to Ross.
Kindly search him for duplicate of this key, found in hand of murdered man in London.
                  ROSS: (With a slight shrug) Never mind - it's in my vest pocket.


Mark takes it out.
Well, you've got me. But will you tell me something? CHAN: If I may. ROSS:
                  Where did I slip up? How did you know me? CHAN: (With a bland smile) I wasn't sure -- until
                  just now. ROSS: (Amazed) You weren't? Then what about the letter you wrote me? CHAN:
                  Oh, I wrote everybody the same letter. But you are only one who came here to shoot my best suit. CAPTAIN: What do
                  you want to do with him, Charlie? CHAN: Take charge please, while I send immediate wireless to Inspector Duff in hospital.


As Chan starts from cabin,  DISSOLVE TO  DOOR OF WIRELESS ROOM -  Chan dictating to operator.  Beside
                  him, arm in arm, are Mark and Pam. 

CHAN: (Dictating to operator) Honorable Duff - kindly providence
                  has sprinkled your contemptible substitute with a shower of luck - Ross is under arrest. Honorable Mr. Kennaway and Miss Potter
                  join in best wishes before joining to receive blessings of astonished relatives.


He turns and smiles at Mark and Pam.
Mistake?  MARK:   No mistake - fortunately, quite true. 
He puts his arm around Pam's waist, as she smiles up at him.  
FADE OUT.
 
 
                  







































