THE HITCHER

A Screenplay by

Eric Red
 

"Living on the road, my friend

was gonna keep you free and clean
Now you wear your skin like iron
Your breath's as hard as kerosene..."

Townes Van Zandt,
"Pancho & Lefty"
 

FADE IN: ’

INT. '79 CAMARO - INTERSTATE HIGHWAY 10 WEST NEAR THE 1
TEXAS BORDERLINE ~ NIGHT .

JIM HALSEY is asleep at the wheel.

Lit up by a splash of headlights flooding the front
seat. Windshield awash with the twin headlamps of an
eighteen-wheeler rig bearing down on him. He has
drifted onto the oncoming lanes. EAR-SPLITTING TOOTS
of the truck's HORN shock him awake. Shouting, he
spins the steering wheel hand over hand, swerving wild-
ly onto the right side of the road. Head-on collision
missed by inches. The titanic tractor trailer THUNDERS
past, shuddering the car's suspension in its afterblow.
Then it is gone.

Soothing country dark thick and tangible as oil flows
into the car again. The world outside the windows is
black and empty save for a distant pinpoint of head-
lights ahead and the red and amber warning lights of
the truck receding in the rearview mirror. Broken
white lines and blacktop roll out of the darkness in
the Camaro's high~beams.

Halsey gasps for breath, long drags of air to calm
himself down. In the white glow of the dashboard
lights, Jim is seen to be a 20-year-old young man with
long, dirty blond hair and rugged good looks. He is
clad in a black leather jacket and a white tee-shirt.
He has on blue jeans and Etonic running shoes. Halsey
starts to nod off again. He blinks and slaps himself
to stay awake.

A signpost comets out of the void. "Welcome to Texas."

The kid cheers, punching the horn and pounding on the
roof above his head. Made it.

Droplets begin to fleck the windshield. The drizzle
becomes a rainstorm. He switches on the windshield
WIPERS and they SLAP away the splashing water. THUNDER
CRACKBOOMS. A slag of lightning jags across the gloomy
sky.

The speedometer needle hovers at 45: mph. Jim CLICKS
down his signal stick. He checks his blind spot to see
if it's safe to change lanes. The Interstate is inky
pitch fore and aft. Halsey steers his car sideways.

HORN BLARE. SOUND OF SHEARING METAL. Something
rockets past on his left side, scraping his door,
showering sparks. The kid yells out, steering, veering
his Camaro into the right lane again. In his head-
lights, the ghostly form of a white Volkswagen bug
hurtles on ahead.
 

2.

CONTINUED: 1

It has all its lights ominously off and it is swallowed
up in the dark like an egg in ink.

His nerves shot, he travels on. The horizon ahead is
turning a shade of deep blue. Dawn imminent.

A second shard of lightning silhouettes a HITCHHIKER on
the highwayside in the strobing electrical flash. He
resembles a drenched scarecrow. Arm out, thumb ex-
tended.

The kid signals right. He glides the Camaro over to
the shoulder of the road and sits waiting. RAIN
SPLASHING, WIPERS WHAPPING, SIGNAL CLICKING, ENGINE
HUMMING. A TAP on the window of the passenger door.
Halsey reaches his hand out to unlock the door. It
hovers momentarily, hesitant, wary. He shrugs and
opens the latch.

The door swings open and the ROARING DIN OF THE STORM
shatters the silence. The Hitcher hustles into the
seat. There is only a brief glimpse of him before he
shuts the door and the inside light goes off. He is a
grimly gaunt man in his mid-thirties. His bony, skele-
tal physique is wrapped in a black rubber raincoat like
a cape. He has a coyote face, hair close-cropped to
his skull in convict fashion. His skin is pallid and
bad. A plastic tube is inserted in his neck at the
larynx. His vocal cords have been removed and he has
an artificial voice box. His eyes are his most
striking feature. Pure black and bullet hard, brute
force in them. He settles in his seat, fixing his
eyeballs on Halsey.

Jim shifts into gear and drives back onto the road.
The stranger sits silent and still, staring.

HALSEY
My mother told me never to do this.

No response.

HALSEY
(continuing)
The name's Jim Halsey, man.

He extends his hand. The Hitcher shakes it. He SPEAKS
with a VOICE like a TRANSISTOR RADIO.

HITCHER
John Ryder.

HALSEY
So where do you want me to drop you?

(CONTINUED)
 

CONTINUED: (2) 1

No answer. “

HALSEY
(continuing)
You gonna tell me where you're
goin’. or what?

No answer. Eyeballs glinting in the dark, reptilian,
alien.

BALSEY
(continuing)
What are you looking at me that
way for? I said, what are you
looking at?

RYDER
Scare ya?

His bullet eyes are riveted on Jim but Jim's attention
has been diverted. A white spectre in the watery wind-
shield, the Volkswagen bug is parked off to the side of
the road, all its lights off.

The kid takes his foot off the gas pedal, slowing down
alongside the car.

Abruptly, Ryder places his hand on the kid's knee,
pressing down firmly, forcing the accelerator to the
floor. The Camaro lunges on past the other car.

HALSEY
Are you stoned or stupid?

Ryder just sits and stares at him. Jim glances into
the rearview mirror.

Out of the backshield, the ghostly automotive appari-
tion recedes in the red taillight. A popping strobe of
lightning emblazons its windows translucent. A swash
of dark liquid drips down the windshield. The car
vanishes behind sheets of rain.

HALSEY
(continuing)
Why did you stop me from stopping
by that car?

No answer.
HALSEY
(continuing)
I asked you a question, man. I
said I asked you a question.

(CONTINUED)
 

CONTINUED: (3) 1

RYDER
Scare ya?

HALSEY
Gimme a break.

RYDER
Scare ya?

HALSEY

The ride's over.

He steers the car over to the embankment and shifts
angrily to "park." Halsey looks Ryder in the eye.

HALSEY
(continuing)
Goodbye.

The Hitcher doesn't move a muscle. Something about him
is very powerful.

HALSEY
(continuing)
Get out.

Ryder's gaze is very, very dangerous. The kid holds it
but sweaty fear is setting in. Condensation fogs up
the windows. The sounds of breathing and heartbeats.
Jim drops his eyes. Ryder is not going to move and
Halsey knows he can't make him.

RYDER
What you're going to do is drive.

HALSEY
Oh boy.

The kid reluctantly does what he is told. The Camaro
glides back onto the Interstate. The sky is now blue
and faint dawn light falls on the two men. There are
no other cars in sight.

HALSEY
(continuing)
What was wrong with that car back
there?

RYDER
Why?

HALSEY
Thought I saw something is all.

(CONTINUED)
1

CONTINUED:

(4)

RYDER
Like?

HALSEY
Nothin’.

RYDER
Like?

HALSEY
It wasn't anything.

RYDER
Like?

HALSEY
Trick of the light.

RYDER
I'm warnin' you.

HALSEY
Well, blood.

RYDER
Blood?

HALSEY
Blood.

RYDER
You did.

HALSEY
Wonderful.

RYDER
Do ya know why there

HALSEY
Dunno.

RYDER
Guess.

HALSEY
Got me.

RYDER
Guess.

HALSEY

Don't want to.

 

was blood?

(CONTINUED)
 

CONTINUED:

(5) 1
RYDER
Ask.
HALSEY
So where did you want me to drop
you?
RYDER
Ask. Say, "John, why was there
blood?"
HALSEY
Drop it.
RYDER

I'm warning you.

HALSEY
John, why was there blood?

RYDER
Because I'm Dracula. I always
keep a warm, wet supply on hand
when I drive.

HALSEY
You're playing with my head,
aren't you?

RYDER
You're such an asshole you'll
believe any dumb shit.

HALSEY
So what's the real story with that
car back there?

RYDER
Ran out of gas.

HALSEY
So you want to find a gas station?

RYDER
It would help.

The kid breathes a sigh of relief.

RYDER
(continuing)
Gas stations have cigarettes and I
need some smokes.

(CONTINUED)
 

(6) 1

HALSEY
What about gas?

RYDER
I don't need no gas.

The kid's spirits sink.

HALSEY
How are you gonna drive without
gas?

RYDER

I don't drive.

HALSEY
What do you want?

The Hitcher chuckles.

HALSEY
(continuing)

What's so funny?

RYDER
That's what she said.

HALSEY
Who is she?

RYDER

"She" is the girl that was driving
that car back there. She's the
one who picked me up before you
did.

The kid is quivering with fright. Squinting through
the windshield, he sees a sign whiz by. "Pay Toll.

Ryder has his eyes set on Halsey and

doesn't spot it. The kid accelerates.

HALSEY
Where is she?

RYDER
I'm sure she's still back there.
She couldn't have walked very far.

HALSEY
Why's that?

RYDER
Because I cut her legs off. And
her arms. And her head.

(CONTINUED)
 

CONTINUED: (7) 1

HALSEY
Wow.

RYDER
And I'm going to do the same to
you.

Their faces are shined on by the glittering illuminated
tollbooth plaza just a few hundred yards away. Four
Highway Patrol cars are parked by the side of the
structure. Jim steers out of the exact change lane
towards one of the manned booths.

Jim turns his head to stare square in Ryder's face. He
gathers up a mouthful of saliva and spits it at him.

Drool dribbles down the Hitcher's cheek. He is un-
ruffled as the Camaro eases onto the ramp into the
terminal.

The car nestles in next to the window. Green lights
flash red. Guard gatepost winds down.

Ryder cups his hand over Halsey's crotch. METALLIC
SNAP. A switchblade knife is secreted in the palm.
The razor edge is laid against the fly of Jim's pants.
The smile runs away from the kid's face.

RYDER
Don't.

The TOLL ATTENDANT is a tobacco-chewing old geezer. He
rolls his eyes as he sees the two men in the car, one
with his hand on the other's privates. Ryder blows him
a smooch. The geezer grimaces in disgust, flicking his
fingers impatiently.

TOLL ATTENDANT
Come on. Let's go, sweethearts.

The kid is pouring sweat. Raw desperation. He tries
to catch the old man's eye. The Toll Attendant won't
acknowledge him, aloof.

The Hitcher fetches a crumpled greenback from his rain-
coat pocket. He squeezes Jim's fingers around it.

RYDER
Pay the man.

Jim starts to offer the bill. He holds his breath as
he sees damp splotches of fresh blood smearing the face
of George Washington. He might have a hope.

(CONTINUED)
 

CONTINUED: (8) 1

Just a small one. He holds the bill out his window,
gozy side up, for the Attendant to take.

The geezer snatches it and plops it into the cash
drawer without so much as a second glance. Jim emits 4
choked sob, gritting his teeth as Ryder applies a bit
of pressure to the knife against his genitals.

RYDER
(continuing)
Drive.

Red lights flash green. Guard gatepost winds up.

Halsey clamps his eyes tight shut. He puts his sneaker
down on the gas pedal and presses it in, leg shaking.
The Camaro VROOMS out of the tollbooth plaza.

The two-lane blacktop ahead is deserted of cars as far
as the eye can see, utterly desolate and an inconsol-
ably bleak place to die.

The Hitcher rests the razor blade edge of the shiv on
the ridge of Jim's eye socket. He delicately pricks
the pinpoint tip on the white of his eyeball. Tears
Stream from the ducts. Jim keeps his gaze religiously
fixed on the road.

RYDER
(continuing)
Ya wanna know what happens to an
eyeball when it gets punctured?
It deflates like a balloon and all
the goo oozes out.

HALSEY
Great.

Ryder scrapes the switchblade in a red scratch line
down Halsey's cheek and over the jut of his jawbone.
He indents the point on Jim's throbbing jugular vein.

RYDER
Ya got any idea how much blood
jets out of a guy's neck when his
throat's been slit? Gallons.
You'll be up to your ankles in the stuff.

HALSEY
What do you want?

RYDER
I want you to stop me.

(CONTINUED)
 

CONTINUED:

(9) 1

HALSEY
You got the knife. You'd stick me
with it before I could do anything.

RYDER
That's right, I would. I'm going
to. So what do you got to lose?
Stop me.

HALSEY
I can't.

A. dark, damp stain spreads across the legs of Jim's
The Hitcher notices it and goes berserk.

RYDER
Ya pissed your pants, ya -
vegetable! Ya think that's gonna
save your ass! Ya wanna know why
I'm gonna gut ya like a fish?
Even the lowest of animals got the
survival reflex to fight back when
its life is on the line. If ya
ain't got that, you're like some
jelly amoeba with no backbone or
spine and ya ain't fit to live.
I'm gonna hack you up, chop you
apart piece by piece, and I swear
you're gonna be conscious during

surgery.

HALSEY
Please, I'll do anything you want,
man.

RYDER
Anything?

HALSEY
Anything.

RYDER
Say four words.

HALSEY
Okay.

RYDER

Say, "I want to die.”

HALSEY
"I want to die"?

(CONTINUED)
ll.

CONTINUED: (10) . 1
RYDER
No, say it.
HALSEY
I dunno if I can say... say that.
RYDER
Sure ya can. Repeat after me.
"I..."
HALSEY
"I-I..."
RYDER
"Want..."
HALSEY
“Want...”
RYDER
"To..."
HALSEY
"T-to..."
RYDER
"Die."

Halsey stutters. Stammers.

RYDER (cont'd)
"Die."

Jim's eyes chance on the speedometer gauge. Two illum-
inated words in red.

"Door Ajar."
Face bloated, flushed with adrenalin, he sucks in air.

HALSEY
"I don't want to dielli"

The kid ramrods his shoulder into Ryder's torso. The
Hitcher is slammed into the passenger door It springs
open, jettisoning him out onto --

EXT. INTERSTATE HIGHWAY 10 - DAY 2

Ryder tumbles head over heels into the ripping wind,
somersaulting down onto the hard blacktop, rolling
loose-limbed over and over and over. Flopping like a
limp rag doll onto his belly, he recedes away into a
black speck in the --
 

INT. '79 CAMARO - DAY 3

-- rearview mirror. The dot evaporates FROM VIEW.

Halsey is spaced out, jaw drooping, out of it. The
road ROARS through the open door. He leans over and
yanks it shut. Sits up straight.

He pats his forearm, knee and stomach and feels his
face to assure himself that they are all intact. An
astonished expression hits his face. He laughs and
cheers hysterically. He slaps on the dashboard and
pounds on the aluminum roof and drums on the steering
wheel and punches the horn repeatedly. HONK! HONK!
HONK! HONK! HONK!

EXT. INTERSTATE HIGHWAY 10 - BACK DOWN THE ROAD - DAY 4

John Ryder is sprawled and splayed akimbo on the muddy
tarmac. Fingers scraped raw.

Twitch.

White eyes pop open in a wild Kabuki mask of a face.
War paint streaks cf rainy grime anc gore.

His body quivers and contracts in wracking stabs of
pain. Shaking, he rises to his hands and knees. A
string of pink drool dribbles from the contorted ori-
fice of his mouth. Stooped over, he staggers onto his
feet and sways, unsure of footing. Bent, he stumbles
around the blacktop searching for something. Locating
it, he grabs it up off the ground.

The switchblade shiv gets clenched so hard in his fist
his knuckles go white.

The Hitcher stands tall and awful on the empty freeway,
staring in the direction the kid has fled.

His lips pull back in an ear to ear death's head grin.

INT. '79 CAMARO - DAY 5

Jim lays back in his seat, smoking a cigarette, spent
and gloriously happy. One hand guides the steering
wheel. He wears a beautific expression beholding the
badlands spreading out on all sides of him.

Droplets of rain are drying on the windshield so he
turns off the wipers. The titanic black storm clouds
are behind him.

(CONTINUED)
 

CONTINUED: 5

Ahead, the great ceiling of sky glows with a silver
light that makes the desert incandescent. The sun is
just about to rise and the world shines with a newness
and freshness that suggests someone just took the Saran
Wrap off it.

Jim's face becomes waxy as his adrenalin high wears off
and he starts to come down. Looking chalky and sick,
he steers his car over to the gravel shoulder and
shifts to "park." Urgently, he bolts out of his door
onto --

EXT. INTERSTATE HIGHWAY 10 - DAY 6

Wretching and heaving, he gets on his knees and chucks
his guts onto the tarmac. He catches his breath when
his insides are empty and climbs back into the --

INT. '79 CAMARO - DAY 7

He turns over the ignition and rolls back onto the
road. Accelerating to speed, he shakes his head to
himself.

HALSEY
Welcome to Texas.

The SOUND of an ENGINE behind him. The kid consults
the rearview mirror.

A Ford station wagon swells in the oval glass. It
flashes its brights alerting it's going to pass.

Jim watches it out his side window as it goes on ahead,
alongside.

A middle-aged mother regards him blankly out the pas-
senger window, her hair set in pink curlers.

The car advances onwards, and three children come into

view. Faces pressed flat against the glass of the rear
compartment. They stick out their tonques, shooting at
Jim with plastic pistols and rifles.

Halsey chuckles and returns his eyes to the road, set-
tling back in his seat. The station wagon glides on
ahead, sliding over into his lane.

The kid jolts bolt upright, stricken speechless.

(CONTINUED)
 

14.

CONTINUED: 7

The scalding visage of John Ryder glares at him through
the back tailgate window, shrinking away as the car .
picks up speed.

Jim leaps into action. He flattens the HORN button,
BLARING it unremittingly. He hits the hi-beams.

Halsey smacks the steering wheel.

HALSEY
No, you stupid shit!

Jim cranes his neck to scout the oncoming lanes. No
cars there as far as the eye can see. He wheels the
Camaro over the solid yellow lines to the wrong side of
the road, stomping on the gas pedal. In seconds he is
racing nose to nose with the station wagon.

The driver is the father. A stern-faced, crew-cutted
man who looks at Jim like he's some kind of nut.

The kid leans over to unwind the passenger window. As
he does so he inadvertently weaves his car treacher-
ously inward. When he sits back up the dad is BEEPING
his HORN and angrily shouting in his direction.

The kid hollers words of warning at the top of his
lungs. His voice is drowned out by the roar of the
road. Frustrated, he tries exaggerated physical ges-
tures, unaware of how ludicrous they come off.

The father responds with a hand signal of his own. A
jabbed, upraised middle finger. With that, he gives
his car some gas and the station wagon lunges on ahead.

Halsey is undaunted. Gritting his teeth, he throws the
Camaro into second. The eight-cylinder muscle car
easily catches up with the rinky-dink Ford. The kid
looks over to see the father miming another hand sig-
nal. Forefinger frantically pointing ahead, a
frightened look on his face.

The BOOMING BLAST of a HORN. Jim's eyes snap front and
he screams.

A trailways bus is rearing up, bearing down on him.

Jim hand-over-hand's the wheel, steering his car in a
right angle to the left.

The silver cruiser chariots past. Too close.

(CONTINUED)
 

15.
CONTINUED: (2) 7

A jarring SOUND of MASHING METAL. The Camaro is struck
on the rear bumper and sledgehammered into a 360 degree
spin-out. Halsey hangs onto the steering wheel for
dear life as the view through the windshield becomes a
loonily swirling blur of desert and highway. SQUALL of
tortured rubber. When everything settles down, Jim
opens his eyes to see his car is sitting in the middle
of the Interstate. He is breathing in spurts and
Sweating all over. Behind him, the bus has pulled over
to the side of the road. Dazed and somewhat incohe-
rent, Halsey wipes a trickle of blood away from the
corner of his mouth. Shutting his eyes, he tries to
settle down.

HALSEY
Cool down. Down, boy. Whoa.
Cool out.

The kid turns on the ignition. The Camaro shimmies and
Shakes but turns over. He puts down the accelerator.
The car rolls out into the westerly lanes. He's in
business again.

Jim squints up the straightaway. Not a trace of the
station wagon to be seen.

He puts the pedal to the metal and shifts up to second.
The sports car thrusts beneath him. He throws the
stick into third. The Camaro bucks like a bronco into
high gear.

The speedometer climbs steadily. 80. 85. 90. 100.
110. 115. 120. 125 MPH.

A speck appears up ahead. The speck becomes a dot.
The dot rearranges into the now familiar tailgate of
the Ford station wagon. The kid shifts down to first
and lifts his foot off the gas pedal. Space closes.
He squints through the windshield in suspense. The
station wagon is sitting at a standstill in the middle
of the road.

Jim slows his speed and steers his car alongside the
stopped station wagon. He turns his head to look out
his window at it.

The windshield is gruesomely smeared with finger paint
streaks of bright red blood. Halsey turns a whiter
shade of pale. He screams and screams again, until his
throat is raw and hoarse and only a rasping comes out.
He stamps his foot on the accelerator and doesn't stop.
He drives on down the road at full-tilt, forgetting to
breathe. He stares straight ahead, not daring to look
ack.
 

16.
EXT. GHOST GAS DEPOT - INTERSTATE HIGHWAY 10 - DAY 8

A derelict, abandoned service and fueling station. The
office and garage are bombed out. There is a black -
crater in the asphalt where the pumps once stood.

The Camaro barrels into the driveway and stops ina
skid. Jim leaves the engine running. He shambles out
of the car and hurries around the obliterated premises,
searching.

HALSEY
Telephone...

He walks into the cave cavity of the --

INT. GARAGE - DAY 9

Inside, all is gutted and blackened by fire. A few
melted tires are welded together in a morbid,
grotesquely suggestive mass in the corner. Dim light
digging in the dirty window shows the shape of a pay
phone wall unit next to the glass panes.

Halsey runs over to it. He picks up the receiver and
lets out a sigh of relief when get a DIAL TONE. Fish-
ing in his jeans for a dime, he plugs one into the
slot, dialing up 911. He waits, tapping his foot.

HALSEY
Hello? Hello, police? You gotta
listen to me. I'm out here about
ten miles past the toll booth on
the Interstate...

CRASH!

A familiar fist punches through a pane of glass, shat-
tering shards. A switchblade stabs for his armpit as
Jim wrenches out of the way, hollering. The hand with
the shiv entangles itself in the phone cord, neatly
snipping it in two. A dead line.

The kid shuffles back toward the rear of the garage.
His hand is clamped onto the severed receiver as he
backs himself into a corner.

The opening to the garage is emblazoned by the molten
red fireball of the rising sun, erupting over the
desert horizon, spewing fiery rivers across the burning
sky.

(CONTINUED)
10

 

CONTINUED: 9

The silhouette of John Ryder steps into view, framed
against the blazing sunrise. As he approaches, the
steel blade glimmers in his hand as if it were red hot.

Halsey wallops the burned brick masonry with the phone
receiver in his fist. He holds it out threateningly.
His muscular young form shakes from head to foot.

HALSEY
C'mon!

The Hitcher doesn't say a word. He takes a few more
steps and stops where he is standing. Purposefully, he
outstretches his arm. There is something in his fist.
He revolves his wrist until the palm is downwards. He
opens his hand and something metallic and glittery
drops onto the ground with a JINGLE. Ryder turns on
his heel and walks back from whence he came, disappear-
ing from view as he is swallowed up by the flaming sky.

Jim watches him go, uncomprehending. Venturing over to
the spot on the ground where the object was dropped, he
stoops down to retrieve it. Halsey rubs it in his
fingers, confused.

His ring of car keys.

The kid trods over to the gateway and sticks his head
out to peer around. A stale, dry breeze is whisking up
the dust at his feet. Ill at ease, he steps out onto --

EXT. GHOST GAS DEPOT - DAY 10

Outside, the little wind is shaping up into a freak
dust storm. Grit and dirt are swept up and swirled
into tiny twisters whipping around the lot. Jim has to
shield his face with his forearm.

Squinting against the blowing scrub, he can see the
scarecrow figure of John Ryder standing stone still on
the edge of the highway. His black raincoat is flap-
ping around his skeletal frame, bony body buffetted by
gusts of tumbleweed, sassafras and sand.

His hand extends in Jim's direction, fingers beckoning,
compelling. Come.

The Hitcher becomes obscured behind a haze of desert
debris.

Halsey claps his hand over his face and peers through
the space between his fingers.

(CONTINUED)
10

11

 

18.
CONTINUED: 10

The clouds of flying matter die down long enough to
discern the blurry outline of Ryder. His hand is still
held out, but this time it is toward the road. This
time his thumb is extended.

The dust storm wreathes him in a brownish smoke screen
of dirt. Molten red taillights melt through. The
shadow shape of a black pickup truck. All at once the
ground is upheaved in a HOWLING HURRICANE of sand and
scrub. The truck is erased from view.

Halsey takes off in a run in that direction. He waves
his arms and yells, but his voice is drowned out in the
DUST STORM DIN. He gets nowhere fast. His body is
pummelled by the blistering winds and debris.

HALSEY
Don't pick that guy up! Don't!

As quickly as it rose up, the TUMULT DIES DOWN. The
winds sigh into a breeze and whisper away into still-
ness and an UNCANNY SILENCE. Straw, dirt, tumbleweed,
sand and scrub settle into a fine carpet of dust as
visibility returns.

The kid wipes off his face with his tee-shirt. Dis-
oriented, getting his bearings, he sees he is standing
alone on the dirty blacktop of Interstate Highway 10.
John Ryder and the black pickup truck are gone.

Halsey ponders the key ring in his sweaty palm, then he
looks up resolutely into the highway's middle distance,
into the vanishing point.

HALSEY
Okay. You got it.

He sprints over to the Camaro and hops inside. The
MOTOR ROARS on and REVS UP in snorts of exhaust. It
tears out of the station and onto the westbound freeway
in a SQUEAL of BURNT RUBBER tread marks. As it rockets
up the road, it disappears from sight in its smokey
wake.

The chase is on.

INT. '79 CAMARO - DAY 11

Halsey's features are tight with concentration and
intent as he scouts the onrushing Interstate, eyes
scanning left, then right, fingers wrapped firmly

around the steering wheel. He twists his wrist to
uncover his Timex. 5:35 a.m.

(CONTINUED)
11

 

CONTINUED: ll

The world is waking up. Morning rush hour traffic
parades by in the opposite lanes. A motorcade of
tractor-trailer eighteen-wheelers, a yellow school bus,
a milk truck, a few commuter economy cars on the way to
work somewhere. The routine daybreak traffic proces-
sion returns some sense of normalcy and sanity to the
highway that was so psychotically surreal only minutes
before. The cars are turning their headlights off.

Keeping a sharp lookout, Jim uncaps the coffee thermos
he has resting on the dashboard, sipping the steaming
liquid.

A Marlboro billboard sails by.

He grits his teeth in a caffeine rush satisfaction,
screwing the cap back on the hot java. He checks the
rearview mirror. The road behind is as empty as the
one still to come.

He lifts the container to place it back on the dash-
board.

CAROOOOOOQOOOMMMMMPH ! | !

The Camaro is lambasted from behind. The car is rocked
by a shocking seizure that whiplashes Halsey's forehead
into the steering wheel with terrific force. The
thermos leaps out of his hand and douses his lap with
scalding liquid. Jim barks in pain, jumping in his
Seat. Recovering his sense quickly enough to regain
control of the car, he fires off a glance into the
rearview mirror. The back shield is filled with the
front end of the black pickup truck. It is suggestive
of a skull with its grinning iron grill and darkened
headlamp sockets. A bleached cow skull is rigged on
the hood.

Once again it charges into the rear bumper, jackhammer-
ing the Camaro. The car is violently jarred, slipslid-
ing in and out of its lane before regaining traction.

The TRUCK THUNDERS up alongside. Jim is getting des-
perate by degrees. He stomps on the accelerator and
shifts down to gain power and speed as his vehicle
lunges beneath him. The pickup's ENGINE GROWLS and it
picks up speed. It easily resumes its side-by-side
position.

Without warning, the truck dives in across the white
lines and piledrives itself into the left side of the
Camaro.

(CONTINUED)
 

11

12

CONTINUED: 11

The driver's door buckles in and Jim is flung i”
helplessly into the next seat, fingers pried free of
the wheel. He clambers back into position, but it's
too late. The car is bounding off the road and all he
can do is step on the brake. The Camaro nosedives into
an irrigation ditch, coming to rest half in and half
out, lifted at an angle.

Halsey grimaces, moaning in pain as he cuts the igni-
tion. Looking over at the nearby highway, he sees the
pickup's tail end shrink away in the trailing cloud of
dirt. Gone.

The kid tenderly touches a welling welt on his fore-
head. His brow knits in anger. He spits. He switches
on the ignition and REVS the eight-cylinder ENGINE
until it ROARS and ROARS. Confident his car is intact,
he shifts into first. The Camaro jounces as it climbs
out of the water channel and back onto the gravel
shoulder.

Halsey peers left and right. Seeing the Interstate is
clear, he accelerates back onto it.

A blue road sign whizzes by. “GAS. NEXT EXIT. 1/4
MILE."

Jim checks the fuel gauge on the dashboard. The needle
pin is into the red shading on the "E" end.

Swearing, he taps up the signal stick and slows to
enter the exit ramp. Over a small upgrade, at the base
of the downgrade by the little intersection, he eases
to a halt by the stop sign.

A Texaco gas depot is across the way. Towering twin
pinions support an illuminated signboard high overhead.
A metal drawhorse reading "Closed" rests on the driveway.

Jim's eyes stare without blinking, his tongue wetting
his lips suddenly gone dry.

The black pickup truck is parked at the curb of the lot
inside. Very slowly, the kid drives his car across the
intersection. Climbing his car up on the curb of the
smooth cement paveway of the gas station, he parks at
the base of the ramp. Shutting off the Camaro, he
pockets the keys. Unhitching the door, he climbs out
onto --

EXT. TEXACO SERVICE STATION - DAY 12
Halsey walks around the rear of his car to the trunk.

(CONTINUED)
 

12

13

14

CONTINUED: 12

The back fender is bent and dented in and his tail-
lights are smashed. Inserting his key, he lifts open
the storage compartment. A Goodyear radial, a lug
wrench and a tire iron lie inside. He takes up the
crowbar and swings down the trunk door.

Jim wields the iron like a crowbar and hikes up the
asphalt ramp onto the cement paveway. The black pickup
truck is parked across from the gas pumps. It sits
sheeny as a big beetle in the hot sun.

To the left of it is another lot surrounded by a six-
foot-high wood slat fence.

The kid takes a few more paces, then stops. He can see
from where he's standing that the cab of the truck is
empty. He gives the station a once over. Nothing and
nobody in plain sight. He makes his way around to the
rear of the low white office building.

Two doors against the wall. "“Men." "Ladies."

The women's restroom door is slightly ajar.

Jim brings the tire iron high up over his shoulder and
sidles up against the wall. He counts under his breath.

He launches off a kick that bursts open the door, bust-
ing his way into --

INT. LADIES ROOM - TEXACO SERVICE STATION - DAY 13
The kid wheels around with the crowbar poised. The
lights are out and the room is empty. He nudges the

door to the toilet stall open with the toe of his Pro
Ked. Also empty.

He shrugs and relaxes.

He walks out into --

EXT. TEXACO SERVICE STATION - DAY 14

Outside, he gets back to business. Clenching the tire
iron with one hand, he tries the knob to the door of
the men's room with the other. It won't budge. He
presses his ear flat against the door, but can detect
no sound inside.

The kid decides to check around front again.

(CONTINUED)
14

 

22.

CONTINUED: 14

He goes the other direction this time. Turning the
corner of the building, he spots the black pickup truck
sitting where it was before. About twenty yards from
the slat fence.

He cautiously goes over to it. Up on his tip toes to
peer into the driver's seat. Nobody home. Down on his
hands and knees to peek below the chassis. No one
hiding beneath. He scratches his head. An idea comes
to him. He walks around front and examines the grill
and front fenders. Spotless. Not a scratch on it.

HALSEY
This ain't the same truck.

Jim slogs back around the left side. Resting his butt
against the rim of the tire, he lights up a cigarette.

KAB RRRAAAAAASSSSSSHHHHHH ! ! !

A second black pickup truck explodes through the picket
fence in an eruption of splintering chunks of wood
Planking. It comes charging straight for the kid like
a rampaging steer. A ccw skull is rigged on the hood.

Halsey comes alive, swan-diving through the air out of
the path of the pickup. He lands hard on the cement in
a belly roll just as the truck battering-rams its
brother. The first pickup is tipped over onto its
side.

With a GRINDING SNARL of SHIFTING GEARS, the black
pickup TRUCK SCREECHES into reverse and SQUEALS forward
with a SNORT of exhaust.

Jim gets to his feet and runs for his life. The pickup
rears up behind him like a black bull. Jim fakes the
truck out by breaking off to the right and dodging in
between the four gas pumps.

The pickup speeds past, slamming on its brakes. It
does a full turnaround with almost animalistic agility.
Spewing out noxious carbon monoxide fumes, it barrels
headlong for the pump stalls the kid is climbing
through.

BBARRRRAAAAANNNNKKKKKKK! ! 1

The truck bulldozes into the first row of pumps, crump-
ling them into hunks of twisted steel under its tires.

Geysering jets of Super Preminium and Regular Unleaded
skyrocket into the air from the underground tanks.

(CONTINUED)
14

15

 

23.
CONTINUED: (2) 14

Jim is caught square in the chest by a flying gas hose
handle and goes toppling onto his back. Gasoline rains
down on him, dousing him in a spreading pool. In
seconds he is drenched with the stuff.

The kid starts to scramble to his feet. The black
pickup TRUCK ROARS straight for him. Jim slips on the
viscous petrol and drops again. The truck is on top of
him and it stops with its tire treads touching his
sneaker soles. Halsey stares in raw animal terror at
the skull-faced front end of the vehicle looming over
him. It sits there for long, terrible moments.

Finger lakes of petrol flow down the lot and ramp,
streaming around the Camaro's whitewalls.

The driver's window of the black pickup truck rolls
down. A familiar blanched, bony hand holds out a stick
match between thumb and forefinger. It strikes it up
with the thumbnail in a flash of flame. The hand holds
the burning match out over the sea of gasoline the kid
is taking a bath in. The flickering flame roasts away
the wood stick, singeing the flesh of the fingertips.

Jim can stand it no longer. He leaps to his feet and
bolts in the direction of his parked car, sneakers
splashing through streams of Texaco Plus.

The match is dropped.
WWWHHHHHHHHOOOOOOOSSSSSSSHHHHH! !!

A fulgeration of fireclouds. The flames blaze a fiery
trail along the oceans of petrol, chasing him and
catching up. Halsey scatters as fast as his feet will
carry him, but the fiery licks are snapping at his
heels. If it touches him he will ignite like a human
torch.

He arrives at the Camaro in the nick of time, diving

headfirst through the open door into the front seat as
the car is immersed in a swamp of burning gasoline.

INT. '79 CAMARO - DAY 15
Dripping with petrol and perspiration from the intense
heat, Jim drags the door closed. He jams the keys in
the ignition and takes position behind the wheel.

The ENGINE TURNS OVER. Throwing the car into gear, he
stamps his foot down on the gas pedal.

(CONTINUED)
15

16

24.
CONTINUED: 15

The windshield is awash with red and yellow fire. For
a second it is unclear whether the car is even ~
moving. Suddenly, the windshield flashes a view of the
Interstate 10 overpass and the intersection beneath.
Out of pure reflex, Halsey manages to swerve the car
into the right side of the road and hurtle off down

it. Home free.

He lets out a hysterical howl of glee when he realizes
he has once again survived, shifting straight up to
third and putting the pedal to the metal. The perspec-
tive of the road ahead seems to flatten as he thunder-
balls down the two-lane strip. He is trying to cover
as much ground as he can before the Texaco gas depot
blows sky-high.

BBBBAAAAARRRRRROOOOCOOOQOOOCOMMMMM ! I !

A blinding flash whites-out the world as far as the eye
can see. The Camaro is tremored by an earth-shaking
shock wave. The deafening EXPLOSION gives way to a
ringing SILENCE.

Halsey keeps mumbling words to himself over and over
and over as he drives on and on and on.

HALSEY
It's over, buddy, it's over buddy,
it's over buddy it's over buddy
it's over...

A signpost wings on past. "“Food/Rest 1/2 mile."

A "Longhorn Sirloin Burger" restaurant approaches
ahead. Jim can barely drive anymore. He has to keep
his hands glued to the steering wheel. He keeps it
together enough to negotiate the simple turn into the
parking lot and puts his car into one of the spaces.

Halsey turns off the Camaro. He steps on the emergency
brake. Shouldering open the door, he achingly rises
out of the car into --

EXT. PARKING LOT - LONGHORN SIRLOIN BURGER 16
RESTAURANT - DAY

Jim stretches and shakes his head around to clear it,
still in a semi-state of shock. He is sopping with
gasoline, his soaked clothes dripping a puddle of
Regular and Unleaded onto the asphalt. He wrinkles his
nose when he gets a whiff of himself.

(CONTINUED)
16

17

 

25.
CONTINUED: 16

Halsey shoulders the strap of his duffel bag and closes
the door of his car. He shuffles up the steps to the
restaurant and shambles to the glass doors.

A WAITRESS is behind the pane of glass, in the process
of unlocking it with a key in her hand. The girl is a
pretty, plain young woman of 22 with a simple, rural
face and strong, straight-ahead eyes. She is just
pushing open the door as she looks up and sees the
soiled, strung-out kid. Rolling her eyes, she pulls on
the door to shut it. Jim catches the handle and holds
it half open as she holds it half closed.

WAITRESS
We ain't open yet.

HALSEY

Do you have a phone? I gotta use
a phone.

WAITRESS
I said we're shut.

The young man and the young woman are having a tug of
war with the door.

HALSEY
You gotta let me use your phone!

WAITRESS
I'll call the cops!

The kid stops pulling against it and pushes in with the
Waitress. She stumbles back, out of balance. He
slumps through the door into --

INT. DINING ROOM - LONGHORN SIRLOIN BURGER 17
RESTAURANT — DAY

Jim is suddenly standing inside the shop. The place is
devoid of diners and employees. The two of them are
all by themselves. The Waitress finds her footing and
grabs a napkin dispenser. She faces him and threatens
to throw it.

WAITRESS
Get out of here or I'll crown you!

HALSEY
All I wanna do is use your phone!
I'll be right out!

(CONTINUED)
 

CONTINUED: 17

WAITRESS
Get your butt out of this
restaurant this goddamn instant!

HALSEY
God, what's it gonna take for
somebedy to show some compassion?
Don't you see I been through some
serious shit here?

The kid is close to tears. The Waitress sees the upset
on his face and her eyes soften. She shakes her head

sympathetically and sets the napkin container on the
counter.

WAITRESS
Look at you. You want to use the
phone, go right ahead.

HALSEY

Thank you. I really mean it.
WAITRESS

Do you want something to eat?
HALSEY

I could use something actually.
WAITRESS

Do you have the money to pay for

it?
Jim lightens up and chuckles.

HALSEY
Oh boy, I must look pretty
disreputable. It's okay. I'm
cool for cash.

Halsey reaches into the open pocket of his leather
jacket and draws out his wallet, flipping open the
billfold to show her several dollars inside. The
Waitress puts her hands on her hips and guffaws. Jim

grins boyishly, glad he's found a friend. He holds out
his hand.

HALSEY
(continuing)
I'm Jim.
WAITRESS

Glad to meet you. I'm Galveston
and I'm not going to get within a
mile of you till you scrub off
that gas.

(CONTINUED)
17

18

 

CONTINUED: (2) 17

HALSEY
Yeah, sure.

GAL
You got some fresh, clean clothes
in that bag?

HALSEY
Yeah.

GAL
Good. Change into 'em. Go make
your phone call. I'11 cook you a
cheeseburger.

HALSEY
Hey.

She smiles at him and waves her hand. He grins like an
idiot at her cheerful mothering and removes his leather
jacket, sliding it over one of the stools at the
counter. He puts his wallet in the open pocket and
walks around the corner towards the bathroom and the
pay phone section. The Waitress goes into the kitchen.

The jacket sits slung over the stooi in the deserted
dining room.

INT. PAY PHONE SECTION - LONGHORN SIRLOIN BURGER 18
RESTAURANT - DAY

Jim puts down his duffel bag by the unit and picks up
the receiver, inserting a dime and dialing up "0."

HALSEY
Operator? Hook me up with the
Highway Patrol. It's an emergency
so hurry it up... Sergeant, my
name's Jim Halsey. Get something to
write with, man. I seen some
stuff. What's it about? It's about
the family that got wasted in the
station wagon and the Texaco station
that got blown up a coupla minutes
ago. Why don't you get where I am
and I'll give you the rundown. I'1l
see you in a few minutes, okay? Oh
yeah, the address. I'm sitting at
the Longhorn Sirloin Burger off of
Interstate 10. I'11 wait for you.
So long, Sergeant.

Halsey hangs up and grabs his duffel bag. He heads to
the door and pushes through it into --
19

20

 

28.

INT. MEN'S ROOM - LONGHORN SIRLOIN BURGER RESTAURANT - 19
DAY

The kid puts his duffel bag on the sink. He looks in
the mirror and gets his first look at his grisly, grimy
appearance. He does a double take.

HALSEY
Holy shit.

Jim turns on the spigot and splashes water on his face.
Halsey dries himself off with a paper towel and looks
into the mirror. Little improvement.

The kid zips open his bag and draws out a fresh pair of
jeans, a white tee-shirt, clean socks and underwear, a
toothbrush, toothpaste and dental floss. He peels off
his gas-coated undershirt and pitches the sopping rag
into the rubbish. He pulls off his damp and dirty blue
jeans and dumps them in the trash bin. He strips out
of his petrol-soaked underclothes and deposits them in
the refuse. Naked, he clothes his muscular, lean body
in his clean, dry garments. The kid looks a little
refreshed. He goes to the sink and brushes his teeth,
flossing and gargling with tap water. He spits foamy
froth in the basin and looks himself over in the mir-
ror. Possibilities.

Jim puts the toothpaste, brush and dental floss back in
the bag and zips it up. He shouiders the strap and
walks out the door.

INT. DINING ROOM - LONGHORN SIRLOIN BURGER RESTAURANT 20
- DAY

The kid walks around to the counter. The room is de-

serted. A cheeseburger and fries platter is set down

beside a cup of coffee. Jim lays his bag on the floor
and puts on his leather jacket, sitting on the stool.

He looks around for the waitress, shrugs his shoulders
and takes a sip of the coffee.

Galveston comes out of the kitchen. She raises her
eyebrows and smiles when she sees the new, improved
young man at the counter.

HALSEY
Can I stay?

GAL
Soap and water does wonders for
you. Are you alright?

(CONTINUED)
20

 

29.

CONTINUED: : 20
HALSEY
I'll be okay. You been really
nice.
GAL

What in the world happened to you?

Jim stares into his coffee cup and shivers. He takes a
sip and looks at the girl.

BALSEY
If it's all the same to you, I'd
like to talk about something else.

Galveston shrugs and leans back against the wall.
Halsey is spaced.

GAL
You're not from around here, are
you?

HALSEY

I come from Ohio.

GAL
What brings you out here?

HALSEY :
I grew up in this town called
Buford. You're driving down the
road, you see this sign that says,
"You are now entering Buford."
The other side of the sign says,
"You are now leaving Buford.”
Place gets a little old after
awhile. I hit the road. Heard
there was work in Texas, so I came
down to check it out.

GAL
What if you can't find a job?

HALSEY
I'll check out California.

GAL
You don't sit still, do you?

HALSEY
Ain't seen the place I'm gonna
make my stand is all. I still got
some adventuring to do before I
shift into low gear.

(CONTINUED)
 

20

21

30.
CONTINUED: (2) 20

The kid laughs.

GAL ~
What's so funny?

HALSEY
I got all the adventure I can use

this day.

Jim has taken a hearty mouthful of his cheeseburger.
He stops chewing all of a sudden, a puzzled expression
on his face. He feels the top of the bun with his
fingertips. Halsey lays the burger back down on the
plate and flips the bread lid.

The kid chokes on the morsel of food in his mouth and
starts to gag.

A disembodied human eyeball floats gorily glassy on a
bed of gooey cheese.

Jim swats the plate off the counter, sending it sailing
against the wall and shattering to smithereens.
Galveston puts her hands over her mouth, shock-stricken
at the spectacle. Halsey staggers off the seat and
stumbles around, coughing, choking to death. He jams
the small of his back against one of the stools and
punches himself with both fists in the solar plexus.

The bit of food is disgorged from his windpipe.

He sits on the floor in a stupor. Suddenly he is on
his feet, in too much pain and shock to speak as he
flees out the door of the restaurant.

The waitress is speechless. She gathers herself to-
gether and walks to the window, watching the kid
scramble down the staircase.

EXT. PARKING LOT - LONGHORN SIRLOIN BURGER RESTAURANT 21
- DAY

Jim scatters across the parking lot. He stops in his
tracks.

A Highway Patrol car dips up the ramp and drives into
the lot in his direction. Halsey puts himself in the
path of the oncoming police car. He flags his hands
above his head, waving it down.

HALSEY
Hey! Wait, guys!

(CONTINUED)

 
 

21

22

31.
CONTINUED: 21

The patrol car jams on its brakes and jerks to a halt.
The side doors are heaved open and TROOPER DODGE and
TROOPER DONNER land on the pavement on one knee. They
draw out their .357 Magnums from their sideholsters~
with practiced liquidity, taking two-handed aim at the
kid. Sunlight glints off their mirrored shades.

TROOPER DONNER
Put your hands in the air and get
down on the ground!

Jim is stunned. He just stands frozen with a stupid
look on his face.

HALSEY
You got it wrong, guys!

TROOPER DODGE
Get your ass down on the cement or
we open fire! Put your hands up!

Halsey does what he is told. Putting his hands behind
his head, he climbs down onto his knees and flattens
himself face-first on the cement.

The Highway Patrolmen hurry over to where he lies.

TROOPER DONNER
Do you have any identification

with you?

HALSEY
My wallet's in the pocket of my
jacket.

Trooper Donner, a seasoned senior officer, looks on as
Trooper Dodge, a redneck rookie, crouches down and runs
his hand on the sides of the kid's leather coat. He
sticks his fingers in the pocket and pulls out some-
thing other than a wallet the two policemen stare at.

John Ryder's switchblade shiv, spiderwebbed with sticky
blood.

Jim turns his head to look over his shoulder. He sees

it and starts to say something. Trooper Dodge looks
down at him, red with rage.

INT. DINING ROOM - LONGHORN SIRLOIN BURGER RESTAURANT 22
- DAY

Galveston is still standing staring out of the window
at the spectacle in the parking lot.

(CONTINUED)
22

23

 

32.
CONTINUED: 22

She puts her hands on her mouth as she sees Jim Halsey
rise to his hands and knees and Trooper Dodge send his
shoe squarely in his face, socking him senseless. The
waitress rushes out the door of the restaurant in
alarm.

EXT. PARKING LOT - "LONGHORN SIRLOIN BURGER" 23
RESTAURANT - DAY

The kid is bleeding from a bruised welt on his mouth as
he is dragged to his feet and pushed over the hood of
the Highway Patrol car by the roughneck cop. Trooper
Dodge clips a set of silver handcuffs off his belt and
claps them around Jim's wrists. Trooper Donner pulls
his rule book out of his back pocket and flips to a
specific page.

TROOPER DONNER
You have the right to remain
silent...

A SHOUT attracts the attention of the two policemen.
They turn their heads to see Galveston run down the
stairs of the restaurant and across the lot, stopping
and standing in appalled silence, squinting squeamishly
at the scene. Jim stares at her stuperously.

GAL
What's going on?

TROOPER DODGE
Get back inside, miss.

GAL
What did he do for you to work him
over like that?

TROOPER DONNER
This psychotic has slaughtered ten
people on the highways in the last
two days. We found this
switchblade in his jacket and it
fits the APB on the airwaves.

The policeman shows the girl the shiv in the handker-
chief. Halsey shakes his head slowly. She looks back
and forth between the kid and the cops, not knowing
what to think. Jim shuts his eyes and slumps as
Trooper Donner reads off his rights. Trooper Dodge
opens the rear door of the car.

(CONTINUED)
23

24

25

 

CONTINUED: 23

TROOPER DODGE
Let's take this piece of crap in.

The two Highway Patrolmen shove the kid into the back
seat and shut the door. The cops climb into the front
seat and switch on the cherry-top. The car hangs a
huey and heads out of the parking lot.

Galveston stands on the asphalt in a cloud of exhaust,
watching the police car drive away up the road, smooth~
ing her hair with her hand.

EXT. HIGHWAY PATROL ROADSIDE STATIONHOUSE #4 - DAY 24

A small, L-shaped building of drab green brick. A
driveway leads down to it off the busy thoroughfare of
Interstate Highway 10.

The squad car turns off the freeway and pulls up in
front of the glass doors of the main entrance.

Troopers Donner and Dodge drag the limp Jim Halsey out
of the back, hauling him through the doors into the -~

INT. FRONT OFFICE - HIGHWAY PATROL STATIONHOUSE #4 - 25
DAY

A big room with four desks set on the floor. Numerous
file cabinets flank a wall case of rifles and shotguns.
A computer bank connecting to a main data terminal is
in a corner. A photography setup complete with a box
camera on a tripod, a 1-K lamp on a stand, and a back-
drop of grey seamless fills another corner.

There is only one officer in the building. DESK
SERGEANT STARR is fetching a cup of coffee from a bub-
bling percolater. He looks up, stirring in sugar, to
see Trooper Donner and Trooper Dodge come in with the
worse-for-wear Jim Halsey.

DESK SERGEANT STARR
What have we got here?

TROOPER DODGE
Swallow that coffee in your mouth.

DESK SERGEANT STARR
Gulp.

TROOPER DODGE
We got us The Hitcher.

(CONTINUED)
 

CONTINUED: 25

DESK SERGEANT STARR
Bullshit.

TROOPER DONNER
Kid had a switchblade that fits
the general description the
forensic people sent out.

DESK SERGEANT STARR
Book him.

Jim is led over to one of the desks with an Olivetti
Lexicon 83 DL on it. Trooper Dodge sees to handcuffing
him to the legs of the chair he sits him down on.

Trooper Donner seats himself behind the desk and rum-
Mages through the stack of papers for an arrest form.
He inserts the report sheet into the typewriter and
pecks out preliminary information. Desk Sergeant Starr
puts his shoe on the tabletop and chews a chaw from a
pack of Red Man Tobacco.

Jim is bleary from the beating.

TROOPER DONNER
Name?

HALSEY
Jim Halsey.

DESK SERGEANT STARR
Does he have any identification on
him? Driver's license? Credit
card?

TRCOPER DONNER
Nope. Nothin'.

(CONTINUED)
 

CONTINUED: (2) 25

HALSEY
I must have dropped it back there
at the restaurant.

TROOPER DONNER
Where'd you get the car?

HALSEY
It's an Auto-Drive-A-Way. It's
not mine. I'm delivering the car
to this guy in San Antonio.

TROOPER DONNER
Do you have the registration?

HALSEY
The car belongs to the guy. Call
the Auto-Drive-A-Way office in
Cleveland. I know the number.
It's (216) 676-4800.

Trooper Donner looks at him a moment. He picks up the
phone receiver and dials the number, switching on the
speaker phone. The SOUND of an ANSWERING MACHINE on
the SPEAKER PHONE.

ANSWERING MACHINE (V.0O.)
You have reached the offices of
Cleveland Auto-Drive-A-Way. We are
closed on Saturday and Sunday but will
reopen at 9:00 on Monday morning.

The Highway Patrolman hangs up. The kid looks at the
three cops. Trooper Donner taps a pencil in his palm.

HALSEY
Call my mother, for Christsakes.
She manages the Buford 7-11 in
Ohio.

TROOPER DONNER
You got one more call.

HALSEY
(216) 555-0980. Check her out.
Let me talk to her.

The Highway Patrolman dials up the number. The SOUND
OF RINGING on the SPEAKER PHONE. It RINGS. RINGS.
RINGS. RINGS. RINGS. RINGS. RINGS. The policeman
hangs up.

(CONTINUED)
25

 

36.
CONTINUED: (3) 25

HALSEY
(continuing)
«+. Maybe you didn't give it 7
enough rings.

The three Highway Patrolmen regard him stone-faced.

HALSEY
(continuing)
«.. C'mon, guys, do I look like a
bloodthirsty psycho to you?

Trooper Donner settles in his seat and scratches his
nose. Jim looks at the gas and grime stains on his
skin and runs his hand through his crumbly, crud-caked,
uncombed hair. Trooper Dodge leans down and looks him
in the face.

TROOPER DODGE
You open your mouth and say one
more word and I'm gonna take my
stick and smash your teeth down
your throat.

TROOPER DONNER
Get him printed, get his shots,
get him locked up, get him out of
my sight.

Trooper Donner yanks the arrest report sheet out of the
typewriter spool and sets out an ink pad. Trooper
Dodge unlocks the handcuffs, smearing Jim's finger-
prints onto the sponge and the ten digits onto the
appropriate spaces on the paper. Halsey doesn't dare
resist.

Desk Sergeant Starr goes over to the photography rig in
the corner. Flicking on the floodlight, he adjusts the
box camera and inserts plastic numerals into a block
with a neck strap.

Jim is led over to the seamless backing in front of the
lens. The numeralled block is slung around his neck.
The flashbulb strobes four times as snapshots are taken
of his front and side views.

Despondent, the kid is led away from the mug shot setup
by Trooper Dodge. He is drawn toward a door leading
into an adjoining area. The rookie unlatches it and
pushes the boy into --
26

27

28

37.
INT. CELL BLOCK - HIGHWAY PATROL STATIONHOUSE #4 - DAY 26

The two of them walk down the row of dull, cold metal-
barred cubicles without saying a word. Their FOOTFALLS
ECHO bleakly. All of the cages are empty. The cop
selects the one furthest down the line and opens the
gate with his ring of keys. He stuffs Jim roughly
inside and slams the gate shut with a hopeless CLANG.
He turns his back and walks back up the hall. The DOOR
SLAMS. The kid is alone.

Jim Halsey is not looking well. He starts to wander
around the cramped compartment in circles, staring at
the walls. Nervous energy presaging a complete exhaus-
tive collapse.

HALSEY
I don't believe this. I don't.

The kid wilts to the ground and lies there in a heap.

INT. JAIL CELL - CELL BLOCK - DAY (LATER) 27

Jim Halsey's eyes blink open, crusted over. His cheek
is squished against the cold stone floor. He groans
and pushes himself ecnto his hands and knees, shaking
his head around to clear it.

It's unclear how long he has been unconscious or how
much time has elapsed. Jim climbs unhappily to his
feet and stretches his aching bones with a grunt.
Rubbing his swollen jaw, he rests his weight against
the gate.

CRREEEAAAK. It spreads wide open. The kid is thrown
off balance and, toppling out, nearly trips onto his
duff. Surprised, he hurries back into his cell, clos-
ing the gate.

He clings onto the bars, chewing his lips. He scouts
his surroundings on all sides. Deserted. A fraction
of an inch at a time, so as not to make any sound, he
reopens the gate, slipping out into --

INT. CELL BLOCK - HIGHWAY PATROL STATIONHOUSE #4 - 28
DAY

Jim tiptoes across the hall and flattens himself

against the wall. Holding his breath, he steals step

by step toward the door to the front office.

(CONTINUED)
28

29

38.
CONTINUED: 28

He draws his tongue around his parched lips, wetting
them, listening intently fer any sound and being care-
ful not to make any of his own.

Arriving at the door frame, he squeezes up against
it. He braces himself to make his move.

HALSEY
One... two... Go for it!

Jim takes off like a shot through the doorway into --

INT. FRONT OFFICE - HIGHWAY PATROL STATIONHOUSE #4 - 29
DAY

Jim tears into the room in a desperate break for the
front doorway. After three paces he stop so short that
he almost falls on his face. He stumbles into the file
cabinets, fingers stuffed in his mouth to keep his
gorge down. Buckling over, he wretches in dry heaving
spasms.

Trooper Donner is slumped spread-eagled in his chair
behind the typewriter. His throat is cut from ear to
ear.

Trooper Dodge is sprawled on the floor with his back
propped up against the base of the wall, his stomach
savaged with stab wounds. The carpet area seven feet
around him is a sea of red wetness.

His stainless steel .357 Magnum rests in his open palm,
chalky fingers beginning to stiffen with rigor mortis
around the vulcanized rubber stock.

Desk Sergeant Starr is crumpled over on his knees. His
arms are hugging his belly and a sanguine stain flowers
his shirt.

Jim gathers himself together and gets to his feet. He
walks incredulously in and around the carnage. Then he
spots it.

The bleached cow skull from the front of the black
pickup truck is on the carpet. The eyesockets are
cupped with blood. Long red drip-drops like ghastly
tears bleed down the toothy jawbone.

With a scream, Jim stomps his sneaker down onto the
skull, shattering it to smithereens.

(CONTINUED)
29

30

 

CONTINUED: 29

Fright and revulsion turn to raw panic. Frantic, Jim
scampers around the room trying to decide the best .
course of action. He doesn't know what to do with
himself.

The PHONE RINGS. RINGS again. And again. Another
PHONE RINGS.

Out of his mind with confusion, Jim sprints over to the
butchered corpse of Trooper Dodge. He bends down on
one knee and tries to pry the stony fingers from around
the stock of the .357 Magnum. Rock solid from rigor,
they won't budge. Halsey breaks the fingerbones at the
knuckles, grimacing squeamishly with each SICKENING
SNAP. He twists the bulky pistol free. Standing up,
he tests the weight of the gun and gets the feel of it
in his hand. He handles it clunkily and awkwardly.

He stuffs the barrel down into his belt underneath his
white tee-shirt. He zips up his leather jacket to
conceal it.

The PHONES are RINGING off the wall.

The kid's mind is fuzz tone. Scattering across the
room, he shoulders out of the glass coors into --

EXT. HIGHWAY PATROL STATIONHOUSE #4 - DAY 30

Jim Halsey runs at full-tilt out of the driveway and
into the tall, dry crabgrass that lines the roadside.

A SYMPHONY OF SIRENS rise and stop him in his tracks.
The kid hits the deck, ducking down onto his stomach in
the weeds to see a posse of five black and white police
cars blur past with their cherry-tops flaring. Peeking
through the grass blades, the young man watches them
assemble and congregate in the driveway of the slaugh-
terhouse stationhouse. Ten troopers dash out of their
vehicles and into the building. In a second, six of
the cops scramble out the door and sprint into three of
the squad cars. In a SQUEAL OF SMOKING TIRES, the
vehicles speed out onto the highway in opposite direc-
tions.

The kid waits until he is sure he is not being watched
and takes off out of his place of concealment. He runs
into a field of high weeds as fast as his legs will
carry him. He is running blind, his eyes squeezed
shut, his head thrown back, his face flushed crimson.
His fists are clenched.

(CONTINUED)
30

31

32

 

CONTINUED: 30

He runs and runs, his heart punching his chest, his
lungs tearing out of his torso. His face is screwed up
in a mask of adrenalic agony. Jim starts to lose steam
and he stumbles to a stop, standing and sucking in air
in spurting spasms, stroking his aching stomach.

Halsey surveys his surroundings, scanning for a
Sanctuary. :

He sees the silver eagle signpost of a small Trailways
bus station several hundred yards away, situated on a
side road to the highway. Scrambling across the re=-
mainder of the field, he steps into the lot of the --

EXT. PARKING LOT - TRAILWAYS BUS STATION - DAY 31

The only cruiser presently at the gates is the one that
just pulled in and now it's pulling out. In a HISS OF
AIR BRAKES, it starts edging out of its dock.

Jim bangs on the door with his hands. It keeps revers-
ing backwards.

HALSEY
Hey! Stop this thing! This is my
bus! Hey! Stop!

The bus driver ignores him. The bus maneuvers around
with a warning HONK of its HORN and RUMBLES off toward
the ramp to the side road.

Jim is left panting for air in a smoky fog of exhaust
fumes. He scoops an empty Dr. Pepper can off the
ground and chucks it at the tailgate of the bus. It
CLATTERS onto the ground as the cruiser disappears
around the bend.

The kid turns and schleps into --

INT. WAITING ROOM AND TICKETING AREA - 32
TRAILWAYS BUS STATION - DAY

As soon as he steps inside he becomes awake and alert.
He stays by the door with his hand resting on the reas-
suring mound under his leather jacket.

The room has a row of black plastic seats with 25¢ pay
TVs attached to the armrests. A black Marine in uni-
form sits patiently with his hands folded in his lap.
A drunken cowboy with a cowhide face is slumped over,
wearing a sheepskin coat and ten-gallon Stetson.

(CONTINUED)
32

 

41.

CONTINUED: 32

A cigarette is burned to the butt in his cattle-hoof
hands. A Mexican laborer with a ponytail dangling down
the back of his denim jacket is cradling his snoozing
nino on his knee. A backpacker is having a go with a
BEEPING AND CHIMING VIDEO GAME in the corner.

No cops anywhere. Yet.

He loosens up a bit and folds up his collar as he
crosses over to the ticket counter.

The TICKETEER is a very fat black girl who smiles at
him through gobs of lipstick.

TICKETEER
May I help you?
HALSEY
I'd like a ticket on the next bus
out.
TICKETEER
To where, sir?
HALSEY
Anywhere.
TICKETEER
Sir?
HALSEY
Whaddya got?
TICKETEER
Well, we have a bus going to --
HALSEY
When will it get here?
TICKETEER
It's scheduled to arrive any minute.
HALSEY
Sounds great. Always wanted to go
there.
TICKETEER

That's the number twelve and it's
headed all the way to Seattle.

HALSEY
How far will this get me?

(CONTINUED)
32

33

 

42.
CONTINUED: (2) 32

He gropes in his pockets and comes up with a handful of
balled-up bills and loose change. He plops it in a~
sloppy pile on the counter.

The girl counts it, poking aside the change coin by
coln.

TICKETEER
Let's see... two, six, twenty-
four. You got twenty-one dollars
and twenty-four cents. I can sell
you a ticket to Austin if you

like.
HALSEY

How far is Austin from here?
TICKETEER

Four hundred miles or so.
HALSEY

That's as far as I can get?
TICKETEER

Yes, sir. ‘'Fraid so.

She punches out the ticket and passes it over the coun-
ter. The kid folds it up and slips it into his pocket.

Jim has to move. Placing his hand on the butt of the
pistol under his jacket, he looks both ways and stalks
to the door he came in, shoving through it out onto --

EXT. PARKING LOT - TRAILWAYS BUS STATION - DAY 33

Jim walks over to one of the pillars and leans back
against it. He taps a Marlboro out of his pack. He
breaks it apart in a crumple of paper and tobacco
shreds.

The WAIL of a SIREN makes him dodge for cover behind
the pinion. He withdraws the .357 Magnum from his belt
and takes hold of it with both hands.

A Highway Patrol car with its beacon
over the ramp incline into the lot.
Swerves around and comes to a stop.
and TROOPER CONNERS get out, leaving

ablaze bobs up
The vehicle
TROOPER PRESTONE
the MOTOR RUNNING.

Jim takes the sound of the doors opening as a cue.
Leaping around the pillar onto both feet, he trains the
hog pistol on the two Highway Patrolmen.

(CONTINUED)
 

33

CONTINUED: 33

HALSEY
Stop!

Trooper Prestone and Trooper Conners obey. Their hands
hover by their hips. The guns have not been taken out
of the holsters.

TROOPER PRESTONE
Take it easy.

HALSEY
Tell me about it!

TROOPER PRESTONE
We both have wives and kids, and
we both want to see them again.
We'll do whatever you want us to
do. What do you want us to do?

HALSEY
Gimme a minute.

TROOPER PRESTONE
We got all day.

HALSEY
Get over by the car.

The cops back up slowly and carefully.

HALSEY (cont'd)
«+. Those handcuffs you got on
your belt. I want you to take
them off and lock your partner's
hands behind his back.

TROOPER PRESTONE
You mean me?

HALSEY
No, I meant you, the other guy.
But you do it. You do it.

TROOPER PRESTONE
Me?

HALSEY
You. Go ahead, but don't go
anywhere your gun. You. Get your
hands behind your back.

Trooper Conners obediently follows Halsey's directions.
He places his wrists together in the small of his back.

(CONTINUED)
 

33

34

44.
CONTINUED: (2) 33

Trooper Prestone unhitches his cuffs from his belt and
clamps them securely around his brother officer's
wrists.

HALSEY
We're all gonna get in the car and
take a drive.

TROOPER PRESTONE
Where to?

HALSEY
Let's do this one step at a time.
How are we gonna work this? Let's
see. You guys get in the front
and I'll get in the back. Does
that sound alright?

TROOPER PRESTONE
Sounds good to me.

Jim walks over to the right hand back door and gestures
with the barrel of the .357 Magnum. The subservient
troopers get together by the right front door.

HALSEY
One of you open the door.

Trooper Prestone gently unlatches the door and eases it

open. Halsey opens his with one hand and keeps the gun
leveled with the other.

HALSEY (cont'd)
++. We're all gonna get in at the
same time. Ready. Steady. Go.

The three of them climb into the vehicle in unison.

INT. HIGHWAY PATROL CAR - DAY 34

Trooper Conners slides over and Trooper Prestone gets
behind the wheel. Halsey braces his sneakers against
the frame of the front seat. Resting his elbows, he
keeps a steady and unwavering two-hand grip on the
cannon.

HALSEY
Start the car. Head for the
highway.

The patrolman switches ON the IGNITION and shifts into
gear.

(CONTINUED)
 

34

45.

CONTINUED: 34

He drives out of the parking lot, down the dip of the
ramp and turns onto the road.

A Motorola shortwave RADIO is under the dashboard. The
light is blinking as a wire band frequency is monitored
on the speaker amid storms of STATIC.

TRANSMISSION
All units, this is Texas Ranger C
company commander Captain
Eszterhas. Suspect is a male
Caucasian in his early twenties
with long hair. Name Jim Halsey.
Patrol IH 10 and search all
establishments in a ten-mile
radius. Two pistols were found to
be missing from the station. He
is to be considered armed and
extremely dangerous. Approach
with caution...

The kid and the police officers listen to the broadcast

in states of complete attention. Jim shakes his head -
and rubs his eyes.

HALSEY
The shortwave radio. Could you
call out on it and get me
connected with this Captain guy?

TROOPER PRESTONE
I can put you through.

HALSEY
Go for it. Do it but don't tell
anyone where we are or anything.

The cop takes the mike off the clip and puts it to his
lips.

TROOPER PRESTONE
Central, this is car-

HALSEY
I said don't give them any
information, Goddammit!

TROOPER PRESTONE
Central, this is one of your cars
and we have been hijacked by the
suspect.
(MORE)

(CONTINUED)
 

34

CONTINUED: (2) 34

TROOPER PRESTONE (CONT'D)
We are under orders not to reveal
our identities or coordinates. He
wishes to speak directly to
Captain Eszterhas. Over.

STATIC BUZZ and URGENT VOICES on the SQUAWK BOX. The
three men have their ears glued to it as the car
cruises through the mid-morning traffic.

CAPTAIN ESZTERHAS (V.O.)
This is Captain Eszterhas. Do you
read? Over.

Trooper Prestone passes the mike over his shoulder to
Halsey.

TROOPER PRESTONE
Push the red button to relay.
Release it to receive.

Jim puts the microphone to his mouth and presses the
button.

HALSEY
Captain, this is Jim Halsey. I
have one of your cars and both of
your men are alright.

He releases the button.

CAPTAIN ESZTERHAS (V.O.)
I want to know if you're alright,
Halsey. Over.

HALSEY
Yeah, I'm okay, Captain. You
gotta listen to me. I didn't do
any of this stuff. I got set up
and framed by the psycho who's
responsible. I swear it. Over.

CAPTAIN ESZTERHAS (V.O.)
I'm supposed to swallow that
story? What do you suggest we do?

HALSEY
Anything. I want to get this over
and done with.

CAPTAIN ESZTERHAS (V.O.)
Are you willing to lay down your
arms and surrender? Over.

(CONTINUED)
 

CONTINUED: (3) 34

HALSEY
Sure. As long as I'm safe. Over.

CAPTAIN ESZTERHAS (V.0.)
Alright. I will give you the
chance to give up. What I want
you to do is hand your weapons
over to my men. I will be with
you in a little while. Are we in
agreement? Over.

HALSEY
We are in agreement. Over.

CAPTAIN ESZTERHAS (V.0O.)
I'll see you shortly. Over and
out.

The two Highway Patrolmen, who have been listening to
the conversation, exchange flabbergasted glances. The
kid grins broadly in relief.

HALSEY
Pull the car over to the side of
the road.

Trooper Prestone steers the car onto the shoulder and
slows to a stop, shutting off the ignition. He holds
out his open hand.

TROOPER PRESTONE
Guess you better let me have the
gun.

The angry SNARL OF AN ENGINE and a SQUEAL OF BRAKING
TIRES. The kid's and the trooper's attention is com-
manded by a VEHICLE that zooms up and sits SNORTING
exhaust alongside the police car.

The black pickup truck.

Trooper Prestone and Trooper Conners rotate their heads
to peer out the open window at the darkened cab of the
malific truck.

HALSEY
Noooooooo00! 1!

CRACKAKABOOOQOOOM! CRACKAKABOOOQOOOOOM! Muzzle flashes
of PISTOL SHOTS. The cops slump like sandbags.

(CONTINUED)
34

35

36

 

48.
CONTINUED: (4) 34

The black PICKUP THUNDERS off up the freeway, leaving
an ugly quay cloud of carbon monoxide-laden smoke and
dirt in its place.

Jim has his hands clapped over his ears, drowning out
the SOUND OF HIS SCREAMS splitting the RINGING SILENCE.

The interior decorating of the squad car consists of a
bright red bloodbath. Out of his mind, the kid breaks
out the side door onto --

EXT. INTERSTATE HIGHWAY 10 - DAY 35

Shoving the .357 Magnum brutally back into his belt,
Jim runs like a lunatic from the scene, derangedly
dashing along the roadside as traffic flies by. Stub-
bing his toe on a rock, he stumbles to his knees, chaf-
ing them raw. Staying there, he turns his dilated eyes
up into the broad expanse of sky.

Sliding the gun out of his waist, Jim turns it on him-
self. Fitting this thumb around the trigger, he opens
his mouth and stretches it wide. He inserts the silver
barrel so deep it tickles the back of his throat. The
muzzle chokes him up before he can fire and he gags.
Sagging down, he returns the .357 to the inside of his
jacket. He raises his head and looks ahead of him.

A truckstop diner lies a stone's throw away. "Pit
Stop." A slapdash painted sign reads, “Last Food For
Miles."

The kid pauses, shambles to his feet and stumbles off
in the direction of the restaurant.

INT. "PIT STOP" - DAY 36

Jim walks through the revolving door. A BELL RINGS
with a DING. A counter with stools and a few booths by
the window, devoid of customers. The PROPRIETOR is
scrubbing the formica countertop with a Bounty towel.
Jim schleps over to it, drained and defeated.

PROPRIETOR
Can I help you?
HALSEY
Coffee. Somethin'. I dunno.

Coffee.

(CONTINUED)
 

36

CONTINUED: 36

PROPRIETOR
It's brewing. Got a few minutes?

HALSEY
Probably not.

PROPRIETOR
To go?

HALSEY
Bring it to me at one of the
booths. If I'm still here.

PROPRIETOR
You okay, kid?

HALSEY
Nope.

PROPRIETOR

Go on. Have a seat.

The owner goes into the kitchen. The kid is totally
dejected and despondent. He flops into a booth by the
window and stares forlornly out the pane glass at the
highway and the relentless procession of cars and
trucks streaking across it. Jim rests his elbows on
the table and puts his face in his hands.

Somebody slides into the seat across from him. The kid
drops his hands.

John Ryder is sighting him down with his trademark
bullet eyes. His black raincoated shoulders unfurl
like bat wings, his unearthly transistor radio voice
makes Jim sink into the seat cushion.

RYDER
So how do you like shitsville,
stupid?

Jim gropes for his gun under his jacket. This can't
escape Ryder's notice but he takes it in stride.

Under the table, the CLICK of a HAMMER being COCKED
back on a .357 Magnum. Jim's face brightens in a de-
mented gloat.

HALSEY
You stay sitting right where you
are. Don't move or I'll blow your
brains out your ass.

(CONTINUED)
50.
CONTINUED: (2) 36

Ryder rolls his eyes.

RYDER
Ain't no bullets in that gun.
HALSEY
Yeah?
RYDER

Yeah, oh yeah.

The Hitcher sees the doubt written plainly on the boy's
features and laughs incredulously.

RYDER
(continuing)
Yer so stupid ya never even
checked, did ya?

HALSEY

So help me, I'll blow you in half.
RYDER

Squeeze the trigger if ya want.
HALSEY

I will.
RYDER

Go ‘head.

Jim is on the spot. He chews his tongue in his cheek.
He is in no way capable of that action. Under the
table there is a second, similar CLICK. The Hitcher's
face becomes very serious.

RYDER

(continuing)
Because you can sure as shit bet
I'm gonna squeeze mine.

The kid goes an ashen hue.

RYDER
(continuing)
--- Bang!!!

Ryder makes the sound of a gunshot and Jim jumps in his
seat. Out of reflex, he pulls the trigger, summoning
only the hollow SNAP OF A HAMMER striking an empty
cylinder. Aghast, Jim squeezes the trigger again and
again, but the gun is indeed empty.

(CONTINUED)
36

51.
CONTINUED: (3) 36

The kid shrinks away as Ryder leans forward, his pale
thin lips whitening into a scar-tissue sneer.

Ryder digs into his pocket, bringing his hand out with
something in his pallid fist. He spits on the tips of
two of his fingers and balances twin copper pennies on
them. Stretching his hand across the table, he presses
the coins in Halsey's eye sockets.

Jim just sits there with the pennies on his eyes. He
doesn't breathe.

Moments pass. The silence is so complete that the soft
"puft" of a container of coffee being set on the table
is deafening. The PENNIES drop out of his eyes and
CLATTER around the tabletop.

He looks around, disoriented. The Proprietor is stand-
ing over him with his hands on his hips. John Ryder is
nowhere to be seen.

PROPRIETOR
That coffee's to go because I
don't want you hanging out here.
Take it and get going.

The owner goes away. Phoenix scans the place in vain
for the Hitcher. His gaze settles on something left in
front of him on the table.

A napkin folded over some objects. Two words scribbled
on the tissue. "Next time."

The kid unwraps the napkin and exhales.
Twelve .357 ammo cartridges.

He scoops them hurriedly into his coat pocket before -
anyone could notice them. His attention is suddenly
diverted.

Out the window beside him he sees a Trailways bus
parked in the lot. Its door Opens and a bunch of pass-
engers step out to stretch and get some fresh air.
Several of them come inside to fetch food from the
Proprietor. Rest stop.

Halsey downs his coffee in a single gulp, smacking his
lips.

HALSEY
Get your ass in gear, buddy.

(CONTINUED)
36

37

38

 

CONTINUED: (4) 36

The kid gets up out of the booth and makes his way past
the passengers at the counter to the door.

EXT. "PIT STOP" PARKING LOT - DAY 37

The bus sits pluming heat waves into the baking noon
air.

In the distance down the freeway, a flurry of police
activity. Sparking red road flares are set on the
blacktop. A squadron of highway patrol cars are parked
around the blood-spattered one. Troopers are hauling
the dead bodies out and placing them on the tarmac.

One cop is directing traffic.

The bus driver waddles to the rear of the cruiser,
absorbed in the spectacle down the road.

Halsey steals out the door to the diner and sneaks
across the lot, up the gangway and into the bus.

INT. RESTROOM - TRAILWAYS BUS - DAY 38

Unoccupied. The door is pushed in and the kid steps
inside, closing and locking it behind him.

dim throws some cold water on his face from the basin.
Resting his rear end against the sink, he dries himself
with a paper towel.

Withdrawing the .357 Magnum from his belt, he scoops a
handful of the big-bore cartridges from his jacket
pocket. Halsey peruses the handgun, fingering its
various components and fittings. He hasn't a clue
about how to break the cylinder to insert the bullets.
Patience nil, he works himself into a red-faced frenzy
pawing at the pistol. Tricking open the dead bolt by
accident, he flips the tumbler out. Plugging slugs
into the six holes and slapping shut the chambers, he
returns the gun to his belt.

Outside the bathroom can be heard the RUSTLING OF PASS-
ENGERS returning to their seats.

The john quivers as the MOTOR RUMBLES on directly be-
neath the floor.

The kid makes his move, undoing the latch lock and
edging open the door.
39

 

INT. SEATING SECTION - TRAILWAYS BUS - DAY 39

Halsey ducks out the door and drops himself into the
aisle seat in the row set against the rest room. Jim
settles in the cushion and has himself a smoke. He.
returns his pack of Marlboros to the pocket of his
leather jacket and looks about, spotting the passengers
in the seats around him. He hasn't been seen. The kid
breathes a sigh of relief.

Stiff, he stretches his neck and sees someone sitting
in the rear seat row over his shoulder. He shakes his
head and smiles.

The girl is out of her waitress uniform and clad in a
denim jacket, jeans, a dungaree shirt and worn cowboy
boots. GALVESTON NASH is sitting alone in the window
seat, staring absently through the glass, the side of
her face to him. She has her handbag in her lap.

Jim gets out of the aisle seat and slides onto the
cushion across from her. Gal is removing a pack of
Merits from her breast pocket. As she lights up, she
gets her first look at her seat mate. A double take.

HALSEY
Hi.

GAL
You.

The girl tries to get up and run at the same time. The
kid is wide awake and in action. Jack-knifing himself
across the seats, he drags her down in a clinch and
wrestles her onto his lap. He stuffs his hand in her
mouth to silence her. She bites down hard and he has
to stifle a yelp. He draws the .357 Magnum from his
belt and holds it in his hand so she can see it. She
stops struggling and stares at the gun.

HALSEY
... Are you gonna stop?

Jim takes his hand from her mouth and suckles the red
teeth marks semi-circling the palm. He lets her go.
She sits up and smooths off her rumpled garments. Her
eyes remain riveted on him.

GAL
Are you gonna shoot me?
HALSEY
Stop worrying about me shooting

you.

(CONTINUED)
 

39 CONTINUED: 39

He sticks the revolver in his belt and closes the flaps
of his jacket over it.

HALSEY
(continuing)
«+. See? I'ma kid. I'm a normal
kid -- I'm just like you.

GAL
A kid with a gun.

(CONTINUED)
 

CONTINUED: 39

HALSEY
This gun I stole for protection.
I haven't fired it once. It still
has all the bullets in it. It
didn't have any bullets in it at
all until five minutes ago.

GAL
So you have the bullets to shoot
me if I don't shut up.

HALSEY
What are you doing here, anyway?

GAL
I commute from my job to my town.
My stop is coming up next. Are
you going to let me get off?

HALSEY
Don't know what I'm going to do
with you.

GAL

If you're not going to let me go,
you're going to shoot me like you
shot all those other people, and
if you're going to shoot me, I'm
going to scream.

The kid claps his hand over the girl's mouth. Seizing
her by the shoulders, he hoists her over to him and
holds her face inches from his own.

HALSEY
Look in my face! Look in it! Do
I look like somebody who gets his
rocks off wasting people? Is that
what you see?

She looks him over a long moment and shakes her head
sincerely. Jim Halsey has made contact with somebody
and all the pressure and pain overcome him as he breaks
down and cries. He weeps in shuddering sobs.
Galveston suddenly sees a severely shaken, strung-out
and scared young man, and she is shocked. He puts his
head on her shoulder. She puts her arms around him and
hugs him softly. He lays his head on her lap. She is
astonished and affected.

(CONTINUED)
39

55.
CONTINUED: (2) 39

HALSEY
(continuing)
«-- It doesn't stop. I can't get
any relief. I gotta get some
relief.

Stunned, she strokes his hair soothingly.

GAL
I don't know who you are. I don't
know what's going on. I do know
you didn't shoot anybody. You
settle down. It's going to be
alright.

A big glass portico looms behind the two of them. The
highway recedes behind tinted glass. The black pickup
truck is keeping steady pursuit, hovering like some
relentless and poisonous beetle on the wing.

GRIND OF GEARS as the bus shifts to a lower mode, slows
its speed, steers onto the road shoulder, and comes to
a stop.

The kid sits up and looks over the headrest out the
glass portico. A Highway Patrol car with its party
lights flashing is bringing up the rear. It parks
behind the cruiser and two troopers climb out, unsnap-
ping their side holsters. The young man sinks down in
the seat with a groan.

HALSEY
It's the cops.

GAL
What are you gonna do?

HALSEY
I gotta give up. I got no choice.

GAL
I'll go with you. It's going to
be alright.

HALSEY
Let's go.

The two young people get up out of the seat and go down
the aisle. The bus driver pistons open the door with
an AIRLOCK RELEASE.
40

41

56.
EXT. INTERSTATE HIGHWAY 10 WEST - DAY 40

The .357 Magnum is chucked out the open door. It lands
on the gravel.

TROOPER HAPSCOMB and TROOPER HANCOCK are approaching
the bus. They draw out their handguns and wait in
apprehension.

Jim Halsey climbs gingerly down the gangway. He disem-
barks with his hands clasped behind his head.

HALSEY

I'm unarmed. I'm turning myself

in.
The kid goes over to the cops calmly and carefully.
The Highway Patrolmen point their pistols at him.
Trooper Hapscomb reaches for the manacles on his belt.
Trooper Hancock gives him a loaded look. The policeman
leaves the cuffs on the clip.

HALSEY
(continuing)
«e- I'm giving up but I'm not
guilty.

TROOPER HANCOCK
You spit on my wrist.

Jim looks down at the wrist. It is connected to a hand
which is clenching a .357 Magnum snub-nosed aimed at
his abdomen.

TROOPER HANCOCK
(continuing)
«-. Wipe it off.

HALSEY
You can see I'm unarmed.

TROOPER HANCOCK
Wipe it off.

HALSEY
Put the gun in your other hand.

TROOPER HANCOCK
Wipe it off.

INT. SEATING SECTION - TRAILWAYS BUS - DAY 41

Galveston is biting her lip as she leans over the head-
rest of a seat, looking out the tinted glass window at
Jim standing with his hands behind his head with the
Troopers on either side.
41

42

57.
CONTINUED: 41

A gum-chewing old woman and a little boy with a
knapsack rubberneck in their seats to see the scene..
Trooper Hancock sees the spectators and slowly shifts
his position to shield the kid from the sight of the
passengers. The girl swears and sprints down the
aisle. :

EXT. INTERSTATE HIGHWAY 10 WEST - DAY 42

The young man swallows as he sees the cop cock back the
hammer of the gun with his thumb. The kid understands
the situation. He scrambles away and scatters along
the shoulder of the road. The Highway Patrolmen drop
to one knee and draw beads on him. Their fingers close
on the triggers.

A GUNSHOT cuts the air.
Halsey cries out and collapses on the blacktop tarmac.

Troopers Hapscomb and Hancock stay still and start to
sweat.

Galveston is standing outside the door of the bus. Her
simple country girl face is flushed with anxiety. She
is aiming the .357 Magnum she is holding in her hands
at the backs of the crouched Highway Patrolmen.

Gunsmoke drifts from the barrel.

GAL
I don't believe you were going to
do what you were going to do.
Drop your guns.

The policemen set their revolvers on the road.

Jim Halsey gets to his feet. Sick with anger, he
stalks along the roadway to where Trooper Hapscomb and
Trooper Hancock are down on one knee. He bends down
and grabs up a .357 Magnum in each fist. He points the
guns grimly in the cops' faces and grits his teeth as
they flinch and wince.

HALSEY
I understand the situation.

He is not interfered with as he walks past the Highway
Patrolmen to where the girl is standing holding the
handgun at her side.

(CONTINUED)
42

CONTINUED:

He heaves the two .357 Magnums over the guard rail,
down a slope and into a small creek at the bottom of
the hill. He takes the pistol from her grasp and ~
levels it on the policemen.

HALSEY
(continuing)
.-. Get up and get out your
handcuffs. Cuff yourselves to the
guard rail.

Grudging, but obliging, the cops disengage the manacles
from their belt clips, close a clamp around a wrist and
clamp the other cuff to the guard rail crossbeam.

HALSEY
(continuing)
«s. Chuck the keys.

The policemen toss the car keys to the kid. He catches
them and puts them in his pocket. The Highway Patrol-
men glower at the girl who is growing concerned about
the consequences of her actions.

TROOPER HAPSCOMB
You're in a world of hurt, young
lady.

GAL
What was I supposed to do? I
wasn't going to stand and watch
while you shot him in cold blood.

TROOPER HANCOCK
You're an accessory and you're
going to jail.

HALSEY
Shut up, asshole!

The kid turns to the girl, shoving the revolver in his
belt under his jacket.

HALSEY
(continuing)
«s- I'm gonna grab the car and get
out of here. You gonna come?

GAL
I can't go with you.

(CONTINUED)

 

42
42

43

44

 

CONTINUED: (2) 42

HALSEY
You can't stay here, you'll get
arrested. If you come with me I
can drive you a couple miles, and
you can get out and get away.

She shuts her eyes and shakes her head at the situa-
tion. She shrugs and nods. The kid takes the girl by
the hand and hurries her over to where the Highway
Patrol Mustang is parked with its doors flung open and
its ENGINE IDLING. He helps her into the passenger
seat, heads around the hood and hustles into the
driver's seat. They slam shut their doors.

INT. CAB - BLACK PICKUP TRUCK - DAY 43

A skeletal hand sticking out of the sleeve of a black
rubber raincoat stubs out the butt of a Lucky Strike
cigarette in the pallid palm of the other hand. It
wraps around the wooden stock of a .357 Magnum jammed
in the belt of the grey pleated trousers. Yanking it
out, it pulls the pin and flops open the cylinder.
Digging into the pants pocket, it comes up with two
fresh cartridges. Wedging out the charred casings, it
pops in the new shells.

RYDER
Bitch.

The bony hand slaps shut the chambers and spins them
around with a WHIZZ by the heel of the paln. Stuffing
the revolver rudely back in the belt, it grabs the
dangling key ring and switches on the ignition. The
ENGINE SNARLS. The hand slams the stick into first
gear.

INT. STOLEN SQUAD CAR - DAY 44
Jim Halsey turns over the motor. The turbo-charged
ENGINE BURSTS on with a BLAST of horsepower. The kid
shifts into gear and steers onto the Interstate and

into the midday traffic. He looks at the girl sitting
apprehensively alongside hin.

HALSEY
Relax.

Jim returns his eyes to the road.

(CONTINUED)
 

44

60.
CONTINUED: 44

SIRENS RISE. Halsey looks into the rearview mirror to
see two cherrytops flashing. The flowering red flares
blossom brighter. The two pursuing police cars get™
closer, hot on their tail. Gal looks over her
shoulder. She looks at Jim, distraught. He shrugs
weakly.

HALSEY
(continuing)
«++ Sorry.

The kid starts to concentrate on his driving and he
stares straight ahead. He ignites a Marlboro with the
dashboard lighter.

HALSEY
(continuing)
«-. Buckle your seatbelt.

The girl's face is tight with tension as she extends
her strap and latches it into the niche.

HALSEY
(continuing)
«-»- Do mine.

Frightened and fidgety, she reaches over and secures
his belt.

Jim shifts straight up to fifth gear. A RACING SURGE
OF THE V-8 ENGINE and the supercharged car sears off so
sensationally fast the two occupants suck in their
breath. Halsey jockeys his way through the cars. He
swoops in and out of traffic, soaring from lane to
lane. The speedometer needle swivels up to 110 m.p.h.
The SIRENS are growing LOUDER.

The kid reaches into his jacket and drags out the .357
Magnum. He drops it on the dashboard.

HALSEY
(continuing)
I don't think I'll be able to
drive and work the gun at the same
time. Do you know how to fire a
pistol?

GAL
I'm not going to shoot anybody.

HALSEY
Aim for the tires.

(CONTINUED)
 

44

61.
CONTINUED: (2) 44

Two Highway Patrol black and whites blast over the
blacktop behind the backshield. Jim angles his head
out the open window. At this speed, the violence and
velocity of the wind nearly beheads him. He looks out
long enough to see one of the police cars take the lead
of its brother, advancing on the left.

Over the HOWL OF THE WIND can be heard the voice of one
of the Highway Patrolemn, METALICALLY STATIC over the
MEGAPHONE.

TROOPER (V.O.)
We are ordering you to stop! If
you ignore this warning, you will
be shot down!

The kid looks over his shoulder to see the squad car
keeping perfect pace alongside. The passenger door is
so close he could reach out and touch it. A bald
Trooper is aiming a sawed-off shotgun at point-blank
range, resting his elbow on the base of the window for
a brace.

Halsey spins the steering wheel hand over hand and
smashes the police car sideways. The skinhead Trooper
is slammed into his partner at the wheel. Jim watches
as the patrol car goes out of control, sideswiping the
aluminum divider and slipsliding around the road. It
recovers and resumes its pursuit. The second squad car
drifts to the right and comes into alighnment.

The THIN BLAST OF A SHOTGUN. The backshield is blown
out in a hailstorm of tinted glass granules that hurri-
cane into the front seat. Galveston covers her head
and screams.

A SECOND BLAST. The trunk door flies open, peppered
with buckshot.

A THIRD BLAST. The trunk gate disappears.

BRANNNNG! It comes crashing down on the hood, flopping
over the windshield.

HALSEY
I can't see!

The wind sweeps the obstruction off.

(CONTINUED)
44

 

62.
CONTINUED: (3) 44

The Highway Patrol black and whites fan out, approach-
ing one on each side. :

Jim snatches the .357 Magnum off the dash, tossing it
in Gal's lap.

HALSEY
Use it! We're in trouble!

Sobbing she rolls down her window. Galveston bears the
huge hog pistol in both her slender little hands, frig-
id with fear. Squinting, she points it in the general
direction of the squad car on her right side. Shutting
her eyes and wincing, she squeezes the trigger.

CRACKAKABOOM! The handgun's potent kick lashes her
back into her seat. The shot goes wild.

The first police car maneuvers alongside the stolen
one. dim ducks as the bald Trooper FIRES a cloud of
PELLETS. The hood is blown clean off in a flash of
sparks. A smoke screen of steam enshrouds the wind-
shield. Jim wheels his car inwards and sideslams the
attacking auto. The other car is smashed into the
metal divider. Halsey batters it again and again.

THREE SHOTGUN BLASTS in rapid-fire succession from the
right.

The rear side window spiderwebs.

The back fender drops away.

The roof curls like a sardine can.

Goosed, Galveston grits her teeth and sticks the .357
Magnum out the window again. She squeezes off five
slugs in quick sequence. KABOOM! BOOM! BOOM! BOOM!
BOOM!

The police car keeps coming, not even fazed.

The wind blows the pistol out of her hands.

GAL
I dropped the gun!

HALSEY
You what?!

The twin black and whites close in for the kill, sand-
wiching the commandeered cop car on both sides.

(CONTINUED)
44

63.
CONTINUED: (4) 44

The girl looks over, white with fright, to see a blond
Trooper struggling to aim his shotgun over his part-
ner's hands on the wheel. The kid turns his head to
face the car beside him. He looks up the smoking bar-
rel of a loaded .410.

SHOTGUN BLAST. Muzzle flash.

The buckshot shears Jim's door off at the hinges. It
falls away. Halsey's exposed body is whiplashed by the
ROARING WINDS.

The Highway Patrol car on the right edges up and the
blond Trooper locks them in his sights. The Highway
Patrol car on the left holds its position. The bald
Trooper draws a bead on Jim's unshielded and vulnerable
figure.

The kid flattens the brake pedal. TRANSMISSION SHRIEK
and the SCREECH of shorn-off TIRE RUBBER. Jim and Gal
are tossed forward like rag dolls. The seat belts snap
tension, saving them from being catapulted through the
windshield.

The twin black and whites open FIRE on a car that was
in between them but suddenly isn't. The autos are both
on the receiving end of each other's lead shot. The
storm of pellets peppers their front tires, ripping
them to rubber ribbons. Both cars suddenly ride on raw
rims and spin out of control.

The police car on the right careens over the embankment
and becomes airborne. It nosedives onto the hillside
and rolls top over tail down the slope.

The police car on the left crashes into the divider and
flips onto the broken white lines in the center of the
blacktop. Steaming emission from under the overturned
and crumpled hood.

The stolen squad car sits stationary, a ruined wreck.
The kid and the girl lie back, gasping.

HALSEY
Are you okay?

GAL
Yeah. Yeah.

HALSEY

Good.
(CONTINUED)
44

 

CONTINUED: (5) 44

They look at each other with anxious alarm at the
wreckage they have wrought. The kid reaches to the
dangling key ring and switches on the ignition. The
FNGINE CHOKES. It COUGHS. It CHOXES again, then it
SPUTTERS on. He shifts to first and gently gives the
car some gas. The vehicle shudders forward shakily.

The two people roll to the scene of the smashup. Gas,
glass and mashed mangled metal litter the blacktop.
Jim and Galveston have lumps in their throats as they
chance a glance over the embankment at the patrol car
set on its side on the slope. The two Troopers are
alive and in shock, stunned and stumbling along the
hillside.

The kid and the girl breathe a sigh of relief and turn
to look at the overturned squad car. The bald Trooper
clambers out. He drags his partner, grimacing and
glaring at the boy, too weak and wounded to do anything
about it.

Galveston applies a shear strip to a gash on Jim's brow
from a box of Band-Aids in the glove compartment.
Halsey shrugs apologetically at the Trooper, grabs the
canister and chucks it to him. The cop catches the
Band-Aids and pitches a surly stare in return. The kid
gives the stolen squad car some gas and the auto starts
covering ground.

Halsey pumps the gas pedal and floors it. The savaged
car shivers and shimmies. It is not well. It is
having trouble maintaining a steady speed of 40 MPH.

Gal looks over her shoulder. She puts her face in her
hands and starts weeping. Jim checks the rearview
mirror. Reflected are a sea of sparkling red and white
pinpoints of light. An armada of Highway Patrol cars
are approaching in the distance.

The kid pounds on the gas pedal and punches the
steering wheel in frustration.

HALSEY
C'mon! Go! Gol

Something appears in the sky up ahead. Jim snaps to
attention when he sees it. A black dot. A Bell Jet
chopper with the insignia of the Texas Rangers on the
side. A little flash.

PTAAAAAAAANK! A fist-sized hole is punched in the
carburetor.

A second flash.

(CONTINUED)
44

 

CONTINUED: (6) 44

CRRRRAAAASHHH! A windshield cobwebs. The crater is
carved out of the vinyl upholstery an inch from Jim's
ear. He cries out.

CRRRRAAAANNNNKSSSSSHHNK! A third SHOT blows the
windshield to smithereens. The 30.06 shell RICOCHETS
around the interior of the car. Galveston puts her
arms over her head and screams.

Halsey looks over his shoulder to see the platoon of
patrol cars rising on the road to his rear in a flare
of slashing red light. He looks through the smashed
windshield to see the black hornet of a helicopter dip
its gleaming glass dome of a nose and divebomb his
car. Jim reaches his hand over and pushes Gal's head
down as he ducks.

KAPOW! KAPOW! The headrests of the two front seats
explode in showers of stuffing. A shadow crosses the
interior of the car as the chopper speeds over the roof
in a BUZZSAW of ROTOR BLADES Halsey sits up in the
seat, staring all around him. The helicopter is no-
where to be seen, but the ROARING WHIRR of its ROTORS
is all over the place. Whiplashing WINDS assault the
two people inside the car. Jim has his hand on
Galveston's head and holds it there.

HALSEY
Stay down!

The kid looks into the rearview mirror to see the
shiny, steely windshield dome of the helicopter
reflected as it lowers itself into position behind the
car. A firecracker flash.

The rearview mirror is obliterated in sharp splinters
of glass by a slug.

The kid looks over his shoulder to see that the chopper
is out of sight. The ROTOR ROAR rips the air. A
RIFLESHOT shears through the metal roof of the car like
a spike. Jim jumps out of the way as the parking brake
between the seats is blown to bits. Halsey's eyes come
out of his head as he sees the helicopter swoop, sink
and settle alongside the car, the landing struts sev-
eral feet away from the window. The glint of sunlight
on the co-pilot's gunbarrel.

The kid jam himself back in his seat and spins the
steering wheel, swishing his car sideways. The roof of
the automobile strikes the struts of the chopper and
sends the aircraft into a WHIRRING, WHIZZING spinout.

(CONTINUED)
44

 

CONTINUED: (7) 44

The helicopter weaves and wobbles and slipslides across
the sky as it tries to stay airborne. It swings up in
front of the automobile and tilts its nose down,
angling its propellers to gain altitude and to batter
the two people inside the car with the wind from the
rotor blades.

Amid the chaos, the familiar SNORT of a familiar EN-
GINE. The black pickup truck lumbers up alongside.

The Hitcher's hand extends out the driver's window, a
+357 Magnum clenched in his fist. The kid cowers. The
gun is not pointed in his direction. It targets the
bird of prey helicopter. Six GUNSHOTS RING OUT as
Ryder pumps a pistol load into the aircraft.

The truck hurtles on and disappears.

Jim squints through the shattered windshield, his hair
and clothes blown about by the RUSHING WIND. Loud and
clear are the SOUNDS OF A HELICOPTER IN DISTRESS.
Halsey sees the chopper zig-zagging across the sky,
smoke funneling out of its rear rotor. It goes into a
tailspin.

The kid looks over his shoulder to see the cavalry of
cop cars closing in a quarter-mile behind. As he
watches, the HELICOPTER CRASHES on the center of the
highway. It EXPLODES in boiling balls of fire and
billowing clouds of smoke. Fiery debris rains down.
No police cars are about to drive through the inferno.

HALSEY
Gal. We got away.

Galveston has her face in her hands, shivering in shock.

(CONTINUED)
44

45

46

47

 

66.
CONTINUED: (7) 44

Flaming licks and smoking sparks shoot out of the rav-
aged engine. Anxiously, Jim swerves the car to the~
shoulder of the road and stops. He throws on the emer-
gency brake and unbuckles his seat belt.

HALSEY
(continuing)
C'mon, Gal. Let's split.

She just sits there. He climbs out of the decimated
door frame onto --

EXT. INTERSTATE HIGHWAY 10 EAST - DAY 45

He hurries around the other side and heaves open her
door. Unlatching her strap, he hauls the limp young
lady out of her seat. Heaping her against him, he
helps her up the highway side.

The bullet-ridden and burning BLACK AND WHITE BLOWS SKY
HIGH in a pillar of fire and smoke.

He walks with her along the roadside. A regulation
road marker set in the cement by the guard rail. "Gas/
Food/Lodging 1/4 Mile." The kid stumbies with the girl
in the direction of the access road stretching off the
Interstate.

EXT. "GASLAND" - DAY 46

A settlement of fueling stations on the frontage road.
The depots have luminescent logos perched atop 100 foot
high pinions advertising "Shell," "Exxon," "Texaco,"
"BP" and "FasGas."

A two-story motel surrounded by unoccupied tractor-
trailer eighteen-wheelers. A sign perched atop a pole
-- "White's Truckstop & Restaurant."

Jim Halsey shambles into the parking lot with the
barely coherent girl clinging to his shoulders. The
kid slumps to the registration office with his last bit
of strength.

INT. MOTEL ROOM $13 - "WHITE'S TRUCKSTOP" - DAY 47
A comfy, carpeted suite decorated in baby blue. A twin
bed with neat sheets and pillow cases. A dresser and a
television set on a stand with a remote switcher set on
top.

(CONTINUED)
47

48

 

67.
CONTINUED: 47

The SOUND OF A KEY TURNING IN THE LOCK. The door opens.
The kid stumbles in with the girl, holding her up with
an arm around her waist. He drops her on the bed and
she lies there in a heap. He shuts the door and locks
it with the key. Barely able to stand on his feet, he
slides his leather jacket off his shoulders and slings
it over the teievision console. The remote switcher is
knocked onto the carpet. He collapses on the mattress.

Jim and Galveston are sound asleep in seconds.

INT. MOTEL ROOM #13 - NIGHT (LATER) 48

THROUGH THE CURTAINS, out of the window, the illumi-
nated gas station signs beam brightly in the blackness
of the night. A table lamp on a bedstand casts the two
sleeping bodies on the bed in a warm and cozy glow.

The kid stirs in his slumber. Still asleep, he rolls
over and puts an arm around the girl's shoulders. She
doesn't awaken but she responds to his warmth and curls
up against him. He pulls her close and she clings to
his back with her hands. The two fit together like a
soft glove and, in sleep, seek relief in the sanctuary
of each cther's bodies. Snoozing, their faces touch,
their lips brush and they breathe each other's breath.

Jim and Galveston gently kiss. She touches her fingers
to the back of his neck and runs her hands down his
shoulders. He caresses her bosom beneath her clothes.
He works open the buttons of her dungaree shirt. Her
breasts jiggle free. He squeezes them and suckles her
nipples. She sighs and her smile seems to wipe the
anxiety off her face. She rummages her fingers through
his hair as his hand ventures down her belly to the
snap of her blue jeans. SNAP. He ZIPS down her fly
and insinuates his fingers in under her panties at the
crotch. She rolls her head from side to side. She
takes hold of his hand softly and gently removes it
from between her legs. He looks up into her face and
smiles. She smiles back.

GAL
I want to take a shower.

HALSEY
I'll run it.

Jim gets off the bed and struts to the door of the
bathroom.

(CONTINUED)
48

49

50

68.
CONTINUED: 48

GAL
I'll be right in.

Halsey opens the door and walks into --

INT. BATHROOM - MOTEL ROOM #13 - NIGHT 49

The kid pulls his perspiration-stained undershirt over
his head and slam-dunks it into the waste bin. He
reaches behind the curtain into the shower stall and
turns the hot water knob. Steaming jets of water blast
out. The NOISE is deafening. The room begins to fog
up. Jim wets his hands and splashes his face and chest.

HALSEY
c'mon, Gal!

He pokes his head out into the doorway into -~

INT. MOTEL ROOM #13 - NIGHT 50
The front door is wide open.

John Ryder has Galveston's head jerked back at an un-
natural angle by a handful of her hair. His switch-
blade knife is laid against her throat. She is too
scared to scream.

Halsey cries out and jumps into the room.

Ryder resembles the Grim Reaper in his black raincoat
and skeleton shape as he rears up over the struggling
girl he restrains so brutally. His coyote face is
grimly set and his bullet eyes are afire with psycho-
sis.

His forearm muscles flex to cut Gal's head off.

Jim's gaze chances on the television remote switcher on
the carpet by his foot. He injects the "power" button
with his big toe.

The Sony Trinitron 24-Inch Diagonal flashes ON at FULL
VOLUME behind Ryder.

Jolted, Ryder glances over his shoulder for a critical
instant.

The kid dives over the bed and tackles the psycho,
dragging him to the floor.

(CONTINUED)
50

69.
CONTINUED: 50

Halsey seizes Ryder by the throat and smashes his head
through the glass screen of the television console. _
The SET IMPLODES in a FLASHBULB POP. ELECTRIC CRACK-
LING BUZZ as SPARKS SIZZLE out the back of the unit.
Ryder shrieks and screams as his face is fried with
high-voltage electricity. His body spasms spastically
in Jim's firm and merciless grip. The kid yanks
Ryder's head out of the gaping hole in the TV and drops
him on the carpet.

Ryder's face is charred and crisped. Transistors and
chinks of glass confetti his cheeks and his hair is
burned off his scalp in spots. Blood dribbles out the
corner of his mouth. A bubble pops on his lips. Res-
piration.

HALSEY
I got you.

Jim cracks the knuckles of his fists. He sees the .357
Magnum in Ryder's belt strap in a gleam of chromium
steel. He bends down and extracts it. To be sure, he
opens the cylinder with practiced ease and checks to
see if it's loaded. Six copper cartridge casings.
Halsey spins it shut. He picks up the switchblade and _
pockets it.

Jim looks at Galveston. She is crammed in the corner
of the room with her arms covering her bare bosom,
watching him wide-eyed. He puts the revolver in his
belt and puts out his arms to her.

HALSEY
(continuing)
Come here.

Galveston starts to sob. She runs into Jim's arms and
he embraces her, hugging her hard. She has her head on
his shoulder and he has tears in his eyes.

HALSEY
(continuing)
--. It's all over. We're gonna be
alright. I'm gonna turn his ass
into the police and it's all gonna
get sorted out. I gotta call the
cops.

The kid strokes the girl's hair. He walks to the tele-
phone on the dresser and picks up the receiver. He
gets an outside line and dials "911."

(CONTINUED)
 

50

70.
CONTINUED: (2) 50

Gal sits down on the bed and looks at the skeletal
scarecrow of John Ryder sprawled on the carpet, his
scorched head steaming. She shakes her head, staring
at him like she would at some strange animal who has
been subdued and is safe to see. Jim gets the police
on the line.

HALSEY

(continuing)
Hello, police? Put someone in
charge on the phone. Sergeant,
this is Jim Halsey. Got a pencil?
I want to leave a message for
Captain Eszterhas. This is what I
want you to write. I'm giving
up. I'm at the White's Truckstop
off of Interstate Highway Ten.
I'm in room number thirteen and
I'm not armed. Got it? Get it to
him.

The kid hangs up the phone.

HALSEY
(continuing)
They'll be here in a few minutes.

Jim runs his hands through his hair. He squints at the
outside lock latch of the open door. Something is
stuck in the tumbler. Halsey walks over to the door
and pries out a prong resembling a serrated file. A
jimmie pick. He looks it over and slips it in the side
of his right sneaker.

Jim checks his watch and crosses the room. Halsey gets
down on one knee beside the body of John Ryder on the
floor. He draws out the .357 Magnum and looks over the
maimed man, leaning in a little too close.

HALSEY
(continuing)
.-. Is he still alive?

The Hitcher's fist pistons a punch into the kid's
throat. Jim's eyes go out of focus and he drools,
dazed and dizzy. The psycho claps his hands on
Halsey's ears with eardrum-bursting force. The young
man's eyes roll up in their sockets and the pistol
drops out of his hand. He wilts like a limp rag doll
onto the carpet.

(CONTINUED)
50

51

52

 

CONTINUED: (3) 50

John Ryder rises to a sitting position, stuffing the
gun in his belt. He shoots a searing stare at
Galveston, in a state of shock on the bed. The girl
screams and runs for the open door. The Hitcher has
the speed of a spectral spirit as he soars to his feet
and slams his back against the door, shutting it sound-
ly. He rips the .357 Magnum from his belt and holds it
at his hips on Galveston. An overturned table lamp
sheds his skeletal silhouette up the wall and across
the ceiling, his black raincoated shadow like a gigan-
tic bat folding the girl in its wings.

RYDER
Back, bitch.

Galveston's pupils are dilated with fear as she shrinks
from him step by step. She has her hands on her mouth
as she stuffs herself in the corner of the room.

The Hitcher advances several steps and stands over the
out-cold body of the kid slumped on the floor. He
stares down at the boy, the scorched skin on his face
smoking, his eyes burning with psychosis. He seems in
a state of severe anxiety, splitting apart at the
seams, his finger rubbing a slick sheen of sweat on the
trigger of the pistol in his hand.

John Ryder turns his head like a gun turret to regard

the girl squeezed in the corner, shuddering, scared
spitless. Something stirs in his eyes.

INT. MOTEL ROOM #13 - NIGHT 51
Jim Halsey comes to. He puts his hands on his aching
ears and opens his eyes. Coming to his senses, he sits
up and looks around.

The room is empty.

HALSEY
Galveston!

The kid jumps to his feet and takes off out the open
door into the dark, dank night air.
EXT. PORCH - NIGHT 52

Jim is in a state. He runs around in circles, scouting
all around him.

(CONTINUED)
52

53

54

 

CONTINUED: 52

HALSEY
Galveston!

The parking lot at the front of the motel is terrify-
ingly dark. The titanic tractor-trailer eighteen-
wheelers sit there like slumbering behemoths.

Halsey runs along the porch calling the girl's name.
He dashes around the corner of the two-story structure
onto --

EXT. BACK LOT - “WHITE'S TRUCKSTOP" ~ NIGHT 53
The kid sees it and it stops him dead in his tracks.

The black pickup truck's sheeny metallic finish glints
in the ink and oil night. It's ENGINE is PERCOLATING.

Red taillights like smouldering coals shed a sinister
light on Galveston.

The girl's hands are cuffed together at the wrist and
cuffed to the rear bumper. Her feet are cuffed to-
gether at the ankles and cuffed to a heavy iron pole
ledged in the cement. The tension on her body is tor-
tuously taut between the two braces. Her limbs are
stretched in their sockets. Her dungaree shirt is
stuffed in her mouth to smother her screams.

Jim stands like a statue.

He can see through the back window of the cab of the
truck. Reflected in the rearview mirror, cast in the
ghoulish green glow of the dashboard lights, are the
Hitcher's eyes. Two bullets drilling into his skull.

The passenger door of the cab is pushed open with a
SQUEAK. An invitation.

Halsey walks across the gravel ground of the lot to the
door. Weakly, he climbs up the running board and steps
into --

INT. CAB - BLACK PICKUP TRUCK - NIGHT 54
John Ryder glares at him, his drippingly disfigured

face gruesome in the gangrenous green glow. Jim Halsey
sits in the seat shaking all over, afraid to move a
muscle.

(CONTINUED)
54

73.
CONTINUED: 54

RYDER -,
So what are you gonna do?

The Hitcher's transistor radio voice is garbled and
gurgling from the blood in his throat.

The kid just sits there, paralyzed with fear.

Ryder nudges with his jaw to indicate the chromium .357
Magnum resting on the dashboard in between them.

RYDER
(continuing)
.s. It's loaded up. Go for it.

Jim doesn't go near it.

RYDER
(continuing)
... Go ‘head. Maybe you'll be
able to put a bullet in me before
I step on the gas and separate
your girl at the panty line.

Halsey shudders at the thought. Bis teeth start to
chatter. He makes no move for the gun.

RYDER

(continuing)
You're thinking, “even if I grab
the gun and shoot him before he
pushes down the gas pedal, his
foot will still come off the brake
and the truck will roll a foot
before I can press it down again."
Ain't that what you're thinking?

Jim nods meekly.

RYDER
(continuing)
... So what you need is a head
start. You won't have to grab for
it, I'll let you hold it on me.
Pick up the pistol.

Halsey is frozen.
RYDER
(continuing)
Pick up the pistol!

(CONTINUED)
 

54

74.
CONTINUED: 54

The Hitcher's hand shimmies the stick shift in its
transmission slot. Scared shitless, the kid takes the
handgun off the dashboard. -

RYDER

(continuing)
ee. Put it in my face. I said
point it right between my eyes.

Jim takes hold of the cannon with both hands. He
levels it with the long silver barrel point blank in
Ryder's face, the black hole of the muzzle an inch from
the cleft of his brows. Halsey's arms are goose-
pimpled and wet with sweat, his face is soaked with
perspiration. He's got the shakes.

RYDER
(continuing)
«+. Squeeze the trigger.

Their eyes are locked. The kid's face is a portrait of
psychic torture -- the Hitcher's is impassive, hideous.

Jim's forefinger rubs on the trigger but he can't seem
to squeeze it. His body is as rigid as a rock. His
systems have shut down. The scarifying situation has
set him in rigor mortis.

Ryder's mouth deforms into a disgusted grimace. He
opens his hand and pries the .357 Magnum from Halsey's
grasp. He holds the revolver by the barrel, with the
handle out, wielding it like a hammer.

RYDER
(continuing)
You zero. After all the work I
put in on you. You waste.

The Hitcher clubs the handle of the handgun down onto
the kid's groin. Very hard. Jim screams his lungs
out, drooping drunkenly, passing out from the pain.

As consciousness deserts him, all SOUNDS BECOME DIS-
TORTED; the SNARL OF THE ENGINE; the SHRIEK OF TIRE
RUBBER; the GIRL'S SCREAM that is cut off so quickly;
the CALLIOPE OF POLICE SIRENS. As his vision becomes
liquid and watery, it becomes a wet blur of pulsing red
and white light.

(CONTINUED)
54

55

75.
CONTINUED: (2) 54
Then it fades to black.

Things become white, sterile and antiseptic. Figures
like clean ghosts move to and fro. Clarity returns and
everywhere are things medical.

DOCTGR (0.S.)
He's coming around.

INT. INFIRMARY - HIGHWAY PATROL HEADQUARTERS BUILDING 55
- NIGHT

Jim Halsey comes to. Groggily, he opens his eyes to
blink, blinded at his bright white surroundings. He is
lying on a cot. His torso is naked and the abrasions
have been washed and disinfected with peroxide. He is
still in his stained Levi's.

Gold badges gleam. Officers and officials of the
police and justice departments stand around scerutiniz-
ing him and speaking amongst each other. Doctors and
nurses are interspersed with them. White smocks and
aprons amid blue uniforms, black suits and ties.

Medics and orderlies move around carts and fetch hospi-
tal supplies. Two sunglassed federal agents are doing
sentry duty by the door.

The mountainous, monocled Texas Ranger CAPTAIN
ESZTERHAS is looming over the cot. His expression is
dreadful. He holds his Stetson hat in his hands on his
landslide girth.

CAPTAIN ESZTERHAS
I'm Captain Henry Eszterhas. I
can't tell you how sorry I am,
son.

HALSEY
Where am I?

Jim tries to sit up but gasps in pain. Touching his
hands tenderly to his crotch. The police commander
puts a strong hand on his shoulder and softly eases him
down onto his back, keeping his hand there.

CAPTAIN ESZTERHAS
You're in the infirmary of the
Highway Patrol headquarters
building.

(MORE )

(CONTINUED)
55

76.
CONTINUED: 55

CAPTAIN ESZTERHAS (CONT'D)
You've been unconscious for
hours. This was partly due to a
hard blow to your privates, partly
due to psychological shock. Can
you remember anything about the
last few hours?

Jim is quiet and lost in himself, like he's amnesiac
about the last few hours and can't remember a thing.
His eyes light up.

HALSEY
Where's Galveston?

He searches the police commander's face for an answer,
in all forgetfulness. A look of suffering in the man's
world-weary eyes suggests that for all he's seen and
been through, he would rather not go into details.

Remembrance returns to Halsey like a set of molar and
incisor teeth chewing on his brain. His body convulses
and contracts. He lets out a scream of such raw horror
and revulsion the police and justice men screw up their
faces in pain and syapathy and the nurse covers her
ears. The Texas Ranger bears himself up and seizes the
kid by the shoulders.

Halsey will not be sedated. Jim's torso quakes volcan-
icly. Foaming lickspittle froths his mouth. His fing-
ers curl into crushing claws. Captain Eszterhas has to
restrain him with the help of a PATROLMAN.

HALSEY

(continuing)
Gggggggrrraaaaaaggggggghhhhhhh!
Where's Ryder? Where is he? Let
me get my hands on him! I'11 rip
his stomach open and tear out his
guts and stuff them down his
throat and --

The police commander slaps him in the face, hard. Jim
is silenced and, in a few seconds, sobered.

PATROLMAN
Do you want a straightjacket for
him, sir?

CAPTAIN ESZTERHAS
I think that's unnecessary.
(MORE )

(CONTINUED)
 

55 CONTINUED: (2) 55

CAPTAIN ESZTERHAS (CONT'D)
Mr. Halsey here is a very strong
young man who has been under
abnormal stress. I'm sure he can
keep his head but I'll ask him.

HALSEY
Yeah. He can. What happened to
him?

CAPTAIN ESZTERHAS
We have him in custody. As a
Matter of fact he's in this
building. He's under armed guard
right now... You're cleared of all
charges, Jim.

HALSEY
I'm cleared of all charges. I'm
clean. I can walk out the door.

He sits up and rubs his aching shoulders and arms.

CAPTAIN ESZTERHAS
I think you should lie down
awhile. You've had a rough day.

HALSEY
I feel lame laid out here and I
feel alright. I want to get
dressed and on my feet. Let me
get my clothes on.

The Texas Ranger nods to the nurse. She fetches the
undershirt and the leather motorcycle jacket from a
stool and brings it to the kid. Halsey pulls on the
sweat-soaked tee-shirt and slides into his coat.
Feeling strong and armored again, he stands up.

CAPTAIN ESZTERHAS
Are you okay?

HALSEY
I could use a cup of coffee and a
cigarette.

CAPTAIN ESZTERHAS
I'll have them brought to you.

HALSEY
Could I have a minute with you,
Captain? I got some questions and
stuff I want to ask you.

(CONTINUED)
55

56

57

 

CONTINUED: (3) 55

CAPTAIN ESZTERHAS
If you will excuse us, gentlemen.

The police commander gestures the kid towards the door,
signaling the federal agents stationed there to stand
aside.

INT. MAIN LOBBY - HOUSTON POLICE CENTRAL HEADQUARTERS 56
- NIGHT

Jim Halsey and Captain Eszterhas shove through the
swinging doors and walk amidst the traffic of patrolmen
and policewomen parading by.

HALSEY
Who is he?

CAPTAIN ESZTERHAS

We don't know. We put his
fingerprints and shots through the
computers and we've come up with
nothing. No prison record. No
driver's license. No birth
certificate. I'm sure we'll come
up with something, but right now
we don't know a thing about him.

They reach the --

INT. REFRESHMENT AREA - MAIN LOBBY - HIGHWAY PATROL 57
HEADQUARTERS BUILDING - NIGHT

The police commander inserts a few quarters into the
coffee dispenser.

CAPTAIN ESZTERHAS
How do you take your coffee, Jim?

HALSEY
Black.

The Texas Ranger presses the approriate buttons and
waits as the machine drops a dixie cup and fills it
with a cardboard-colored beverage.

Jim is limping. A look of uncomfortable curiosity
crosses his face. Halsey lifts his right sneaker and
presses his finger into the side of the sole, feeling
something stuck in his shoe. He realizes what it is.
His eyes light up. He sets his sneaker down on the
floor.

(CONTINUED)
57

 

79.

CONTINUED: 57

The cop gives the cup of coffee to the kid and lights a
Marlboro for him. The young man sips the cheap liquid
and smokes, shutting his eyes and stiffening as the
caffeine and nicotine seize his system. He opens his
eyes and stares at the wall.

HALSEY
(continuing)
«.. You said the psycho's in the
building.

CAPTAIN ESZTERHAS
In the prison quadrant.

HALSEY
In a cell?

CAPTAIN ESZTERHAS
In a holding tank.

HALSEY
Guards?

CAPTAIN ESZTERHAS
He is watched around the clock by
eight guards with shotguns.

Jim nods to himself and stubs out his cigarette. He
looks Captain Eszterhas in the eye.

HALSEY
I want to see him.

CAPTAIN ESZTERHAS
Out of the question.

HALSEY
I got something I want to say to
hin.

CAPTAIN ESZTERHAS
Forget about it.

HALSEY
C'mon, Captain -- how ‘bout it?
You owe me one, don't you think?

Captain Eszterhas looks into Halsey's determined face
and rolls his eyes heavenward. He turns and goes over
to a PD interdepartmental intercom on the wall. He
picks up the receiver and dials a number.

(CONTINUED)
57

58

59

 

CONTINUED: (2) 57

The kid waits until the police commander's back is to
him. He props his sneaker up on a candy dispenser,
prying an object out of the side of the shoe and ~
putting it in the palm of his hand.

The jimmie pick lock tool.

Jim slides the serrated file up his shirt sleeve and
stands with his hands at his sides as Captain Eszterhas
hangs up the intercom receiver and walks up to him.
There are serious misgivings on The Texas Ranger
Commander's face.

CAPTAIN ESZTERHAS
You have three minutes with him.
Let's go.

The cop turns and heads down the hall towards a bolted
iron door to the prison quadrant. The kid follows him.

INT. OFFICE CORRIDOR ~- CELLBLOCK SECTOR - HIGHWAY 58
PATROL HEADQUARTERS - NIGHT

The police commander and the kid trod down a drab,
bland hallway lit by garish, eyesore fluorescent tubes.
Captain Eszterhas leads Jim to a room with four shot-
gun-toting guards positioned by the door. A picture
window sheet of two-way mirror gives a tinted glass
view of the interrogation room within the walls. The
cop goes over to it and nods his head.

CAPTAIN ESZTERHAS
There he is. He can't see us.

Halsey walks up and looks through the window.

INT. INTERROGATION ROOM ~ HIGHWAY PATROL HEADQUARTERS 59
- NIGHT

A glaring table lamp sheds a stark, stabbing light on
the face of John Ryder. His head is swollen and
scorched, the skin stitched with thread tracks of su-
tures and stuck with band-aids.

He is clad in his black rubber raincoat and seated ina
chair. His wrists are handcuffed on his lap and |
shackled to a padlocked steel chain wound around his
waist.

(CONTINUED)
59

60

61

 

81.
CONTINUED: 59

Four guards have rifles leveled on his right side, left
side and back. A SERGEANT is standing with one shoe on
the seat of the chair, chain-smoking cigarettes and ~
stubbing them out on the floor of the coldly bleak,
nondescript room.

He is looking at the Hitcher, who returns his rough
stare with unblinking brute force in his black bullet
eyes, a cigarette dangling from his lips.

SERGEANT
Where are you from?

The psycho sits silently.

SERGEANT
(continuing)

Do you have a family?... Do you
have any surviving relatives?...
Do you have a job?... Do you have
a police record?... How old are
you?... Where were you born?...
Who are you?...

The Hitcher stares in stubborn silence.

INT. OFFICE CORRIDOR - HIGHWAY PATROL HEADQUARTERS 60
- NIGHT

Jim Halsey has his eyes riveted on John Ryder in his
straightjacket, chained to his solid steel seat. He
takes a step to the window. Captain Eszterhas squints,
scrutinizing the kid. He looks through the two-way
mirror to see the Sergeant sit down on his chair with
the back-rest between his legs.

SERGEANT
What is your name?

Ryder regards the police officer in stony, staring
silence. Jim mouths the words, “John Ryder" under his
breath. The Texas Ranger commander furrows his brow.

INT. INTERROGATION ROOM - HIGHWAY PATROL HEADQUARTERS 61
BUILDING - NIGHT

The Hitcher revolves his head to look at his reflection
in the sheeny surface of the mirror on the wall. His
subhuman eyes shine like an animal that can see in the
dark. His scabrous, ruptured mouth shows all his teeth
in a skeletal grin like a throat cut from ear to ear.
62

62A

82.

INT. OFFICE CORRIDOR - HIGHWAY PATROL HEADQUARTERS 62
BUILDING - NIGHT

The kid shivers to his socks. John Ryder sees him
somehow through the mirrored glass, staring him
straight in the eye.

Jim stands his ground and returns the savage stare, his
eyes sure and strong. Halsey chews his tongue and
points his forefinger like a pistol at his archenemy,
snapping his thumb like a hammer, whispering the sound
of a shot. The Hitcher winks at him.

Captain Eszterhas' skin starts to crawl as he watches
the strange acknowledgment that passes between the two
men. For a second it is as if he realizes that the war
between them is superhuman, almost supernatural.

He puts his hand on the doorknob and points his finger
in the kid's face.

CAPTAIN ESZTERHAS
If you lay a hand on him, you will
be locked up. Are we understood?

Jim nods, preoccupied. Captain Eszterhas opens the
door to the interrogation room. Halsey takes 4 deep
breath and walks into --

INT. INTERROGATION ROOM - HIGHWAY PATROL HEADQUARTERS 62A
BUILDING - NIGHT

The police commander slams the door shut.
The kid sucks wind.

The Hitcher is standing on his feet, his handcuffed
wrists shackled to the padlocked chain wrapped around
his waist. There is an aura of darkness and black air
about him so thick you could cut it with a knife. He
locks eyes with the kid and his contorted cavity of a
mouth disfigures into something like a smile.

The four guards post themselves in the corners of the
bleak, nondescript room. They hold their shotguns
across their chests, ready to use them in an instant.
A GUARD addresses Ryder.

SERGEANT
If you so much as blink the wrong
way, we'll blow your legs out from
under you.

(CONTINUED)
62A

63

 

83.
CONTINUED: 62A

They kid walks up to the Hitcher. Face to face with a
foot of space. Jim's gaze is raw, bloodthirsty.
Ryder's is reptilian, alien.

Halsey offers his hand. His face is hard and tough.
The guards fidget, whisper. Ryder raises his bound
wrists. He returns the unusually potent handshake he
receives.

The jimmie pick lock tool is sent shooting up the
Hitcher's raincoat sleeve out of the kid's jacket cuff.

The transaction goes unnoticed by the authorities.

Ryder's eyes widen in surprise, and he stares into
Jim's sure and steady eyes with astonishment. For the
first time, it's he who is at a disadvantage. A
crooked smile cracks his split scar of a mouth. A dead
giveaway.

Halsey works up a wet gob of spit and spats the saliva
into Ryder's face.

Captain Eszterhas steps forward and tugs the young man
back by the elbow.

CAPTAIN ESZTERHAS
I think that's quite enough. This
meeting is concluded. It was a
bad idea in the first place.

The police commander accompanies Jim to the door.

RYDER
I'll be seeing you, kid.

HALSEY
You can say that again.

The kid is led out the door by the Texas Ranger
Commander who closes it behind them.

EXT. HIGHWAY PATROL HEADQUARTERS BUILDING ~ NIGHT 63

The first faint blue rays of daylight fall on the squat
brick building complex in the lonely cool before dawn.
The parking lot in front of the main entrance doors
leads to an access ramp onto the thin black thread of
Interstate Highway 10. The darkened desertscape is a
black smudge against the blacker sky.

(CONTINUED)
63

84.
CONTINUED: 63

Jim Halsey stands smoking a cigarette beside Captain
Eszterhas on the cement pavement in front of the main
entrance doors. The two of them are looking ata _
gunmetal grey, armoured, iron-clad prison bus parked by
the door to the prison quadrant of the building. The
transport carrier is like a fortress on wheels. The
windows are cages, bars and steel slits on them. The
massive, menacing vehicle is sitting with its ENGINE
RUMBLING, exhaust puffing out of its pipe.

The bolted, pole-locked door to the cellblock sector is
opened and five guards with riot helmets step outside
into the morning air. They assume sentry position
against the wall with shotguns in their hands.

Four policemen with rifles walk out in single file.
The Hitcher, in black raincoat, his wrists cuffed and
padlocked to the chain on his waist, is sandwiched
between them. The kid is watching him like a hawk.

The driver pistons open the hydraulic rear door of the
bus. John Ryder is walked up to the stairwell leading
into a solitary steel cell in the back compartment of
the transport carrier. He stands still and turns his
head to look at Jim Halsey standing thirty feet away on
the sidewalk. ”

The kid and the Hitcher lock eyes. The young man
winks. The psychopath squints.

John Ryder gets a gun barrel in the small of his

back. He has a small smile on his face as he climbs up
the steps of the stairwell into the steel cell,

alone. The driver secures the door behind him and
shuts the lock with a key in his hand. He walks around
to the cab and hoists himself inside. The ENGINE
GRINDS into gear and the ten-ton prison bus rolls out
in a HISS OF AIR BRAKES.

Jim Halsey and Captain Eszterhas watch the tank-like
bus lurch onto the acess road. The grey iron transport
vehicle with the bars and slots on the windows lumbers
out onto the freeway. It drives into the distance and
disappears in the dust settling in its wake.

The police commander pats the young man on the shoul-
der. He walks him across the parking lot towards a
Texas Ranger car with a captain's insignia on the side.
The cop hands the kid a subpoena pamphlet from the
state courthouse. Jim reads it absently while he
walks.

(CONTINUED)
63

64

85.
CONTINUED: (2) 63

Captain Eszterhas unlocks Halsey's door, walking around
the hood of the car to unlatch his own. The Texas
Ranger commander stuffs his hefty bulk behind the wheel
and sticks the keys in the ignition. Jim climbs down
into --

INT. TEXAS RANGER CAR - NIGHT 64

The kid settles into his seat as Captain Eszterhas
SWITCHES ON THE ENGINE, shifts into gear and steers out
of the lot onto the access ramp. The young man's fea-
tures look haggard, battered and haunted in the early
traces of morning light. The police commander drives
the car onto the freeway in the opposite direction of
the departing bus.

HALSEY
Where are we going?

CAPTAIN ESZTERHAS
The department has a room reserved
for you at the Best Western. You
should get some sleep. You've had
a long day.

HALSEY
Yeah, you could say that.

CAPTAIN ESZTERHAS
Something on your mind, son?

HALSEY
What's going to happen to him?

CAPTAIN ESZTERHAS
Right now he's on his way to a
holding tank in the Huntsville
Maximum Security Penitentiary.

HALSEY
You know what I'm talking about.

CAPTAIN ESZTERHAS
Yes, I guess I do. His trial is
set for two weeks from today.
You'll be the star witness and
your testimony should serve to get
him committed to a high-security
sanitarium for the rest of his
life.

(CONTINUED)
64

 

CONTINUED: 64

The kid looks out the window, seemingly sleepy but
secretly awake and aware. He is winding up as he
watches the tundra and brush blur by on the side of the
road. His face registers a Richter scale reading on
the inner disturbance in his guts and intestines.

HALSEY
You know you won't be able to keep
him in prison. You know he'll
break out. You know he'll get
loose.

The Texas Ranger commander turns his head to look at he
kid and his eyes are soldered steel.

CAPTAIN ESZTERHAS
You listen and you listen good.
There's something strange going on
between the two of you. I don't
know what it is and I don't know
if I want to know. I don't like
it. And I'll warn you. The
psycho is in the hands of the
authorities and whatever happens
to him will be decided by the
judicial process. It doesn't have
anything to do with you.

Halsey shrugs his shoulders and stares straight ahead,
his mind working.

HALSEY
You got a cigarette on you?

CAPTAIN ESZTERHAS
Sure.

The cop looks down at his breast pocket, reaching to
remove his pack. Jim snakes out his hand and snatches
the Colt .45 out of the police commander's sideholster,
aiming it in a two-hand grip at the man's head.
Captain Eszterhas is too slow to stop him. Halsey
speaks in a soft whisper.

HALSEY
Stop the car.

CAPTAIN ESZTERHAS
You're not going to use that.

(CONTINUED)
64

65

 

CONTINUED: (2) 64

HALSEY
I can't say for sure that I won't
shoot you if you don't do what I
say. Stop the car and don't do 7
anything stupid.

The Texas Ranger's eyes are iron. He sees the kid is
talking straight. So he slows down and steers onto the
road shoulder, shutting off the ignition and putting on
the parking brake.

CAPTAIN ESZTERHAS
What do you have in mind?

HALSEY
I'm going to have to ask you to
get out of the car.

The police commander sits with his hands on the wheel,
looking hard at the kid pointing the pistol in his
face.

CAPTAIN ESZTERHAS
You're going to get killed. If
you don't die, you'll be
imprisoned.

HALSEY
I'm sorry, sir. I really am.
It's something I gotta do.

CAPTAIN ESZTERHAS
You don't know what you're doing.

HALSEY
We'll see.

The cop shakes his head and sighs. He opens the door
latch and climbs out onto the roadside.

The kid slams the door shut, jams the gun in his belt,
positions himself behind the wheel and stomps on the

gas pedal. He steers the car in a speeding, SCREECHING
TIRE "U" turn and rockets the car back up the road.

EXT. ROAD SHOULDER - INTERSTATE HIGHWAY 10 EAST - DAY 65

Captain Eszterhas stands in the smokey smog of dust and
dirt swirled up by the rapidly receding car.

(CONTINUED)
65

66

67

88.
CONTINUED: 65

The Texas Ranger commander squints down the road at the
shrinking speck of the ‘car. He swears and throws his
Stetson hat on the blacktop and broken white lines. He
runs his hand through his hair, his face registering
the realization that what is going to happen is out of
his hands. As he stands in the desert stillness, an
acceptance of the situation appears on his features.

Captain Eszterhas sighs wearily and picks up his hat.
He holds it weakly at his side and surveys his sur-
roundings. He's in the middle of nowhere. The cop
shakes his head, shrugs and sticks out his thumb.

‘INT. TEXAS RANGER CAR - DAY 66

Dawn is coming on like a freight train. Jim Halsey is
sitting in the seat, his hands squarely on the steering
wheel, his sneaker stamped on the accelerator. The
speedometer needle is climbing past 100 MPH. The car
shivers and shakes, rocked by the wind raging through
the open window.

The kid brushes the hair from his face and gets a grip
on the Colt .45 thrust in his belt. He draws it out,
gritting his teeth and grinning as he sees something up
ahead on the road through the windshield.

The gunmetal grey armored prison transport carrier is a
quarter of a mile away, the iron-clad rear tailgate
curtained in a cloud of dust.

Jim shifts gears and slows his speed, decelerating to
take position behind the back end of the bus. He BEEPS
his horn. The vehicle HONKS its KLAXON in
acknowledgement. Halsey ejects the clip of the gun in
his hand to see there is a full load of .45 calibre
shells. He injects the magazine back into the pistol
and lights a cigarette, puffing smoke.

EXT. PRISON BUS - DAY 67

The rear door of the back compartment of the transport
carrier BURSTS OPEN in the rushing air.

The Hitcher appears like a black bat in the doorway,
his handcuffs hanging open on his wrists, his hair and
raincoat flapping furiously in the whipping wind.

(CONTINUED)
67

68

69

89.
CONTINUED: 67

His black bullet eyes are bloodshot in his scarred
skull of a face as he stares at the Texas Ranger car
ten yards behind the bus below him. The prong of the
lock pick is stuck in the inside tumbler of the door.

INT. TEXAS RANGER CAR - DAY 68

Jim Halsey stares in stunned awe at the skeletal scare-
crow standing in the doorway of the bus several yards
in front of him. The kid snaps out of it, snarls, and
raises his Colt .45, attempting to aim a shot through
the windshield.

John Ryder sees him and his stitched face smiles like
an open wound. He propels himself off the back of the
bus and plunges through space. His body strikes the
windshield of the car and shatters it to smithereens as
he slumps into the front seat in sprinkling showers of
splintered glass. The kid screams and spins the steer-
ing wheel hand over hand, swerving the car ina
SCREECHING TIRE arc around the slowing prison transport
carrier in front of him. The pistol drops onto the
floor by his feet.

The Hitcher sits up in the seat in a sea of blood and
broken glass. He snatches the sawed-off shotgun from
the dashboard rack.

The stitches on his scarred, ripped-to-ribbons face
hang in tattered strings and a single bloodshot black
bullet eye stares down the sight of the shotgun he
levels on the side of Halsey's head. His finger is on
the trigger.

RYDER
Hi, kid.

Jim braces himself and stomps his foot on the brake
pedal.

The Texas Ranger car slams to a stop. Halsey's head is
whiplashed against the steering wheel with stunning
force. Ryder shrieks as he is catapulted over the
dashboard and out the smashed windscreen onto -~

EXT. INTERSTATE HIGHWAY 10 WEST - DAY 69

The Hitcher is steamshoveled onto the blacktop tarmac
and broken white lines with a sickening sound.

(CONTINUED)
69

70

71

 

CONTINUED: 69

His shotgun spins away on the road. The psychotic is
sprawled and splayed on the hot tar in the rising,
rippling waves of heat.

The Texas Ranger car sits stationary a short distance
away, chunks of stripped, smoking rubber on the road
near the skinned tires. Steam wafts up from under the
hood.

John Ryder stirs. He rises to his hands and knees, his
fingers stamping bloody handprints on the white lines
of the road. In a spaced-out stupor, he stumbles to
his feet and staggers towards the sawed-off shotgun
sitting in the dirt on the road shoulder.

INT. TEXAS RANGER CAR - DAY 70

The kid lies back in his seat, squinting through the
windshield to see the skeletal scarecrow silhouette of
The Hitcher reaching for his weapon through the wispy
steam spewing out of the hood.

Jim shakes the sand out of his head and shiveringly
picks up the Colt .45 lying at his feet. He gets a
good grip on the weapon and rests his wrist against the
steering wheel. His eyes refuse to focus as he settles
his aim on the shadow in the smoke screen of steam.

His finger finds the trigger. The silhouette shape
raises its shotgun to its shoulder.

Halsey screams his lungs out and squeezes the trigger
again and again, using up all the slugs. The FIERY
WOOSHES of flame spitting out of the barrel burn away
the steam. Jim is smashed back in his seat by the
recoil. He sits and stares silently at the sight of
John Ryder staggering spastically around the roadway,
ruptured rips in his shirt where several shots have
struck him.

EXT. INTERSTATE HIGHWAY 10 - DAY 71

The sun beats down on the back of The Hitcher as he
stumbles across the blacktop and broken white lines.
The kid watches him breathlessly through the windshield
of the stalled-out car as he shuffles to a stop and
stands straight with the sawed-off shotgun held in both
hands. His bloodshot eyes are both blurry and clear.
His body is riddled with bullets but some sick spirit
inside him refuses to die, he is staying alive by sheer
psychosis.

(CONTINUED)
71

72

91.
CONTINUED: 71

John Ryder raises the shotgun and rests the wooden

stock against his abdomen, aiming from the waist and

swivoting his hips to point the weapon at Jim Halsey

sitting in the automobile. He has a ghoulish grin on
s face.

The kid's eyes widen and he switches on the ignition.
The car ENGINE ROARS on. The Hitcher snarls and FIRES
the sawed-off shotgun, shooting a cartridge and shear-
ing a hole through the grillwork of the hood of the
car, shattering a headlight in a shower of sparks and
glass. The MOTOR SPUTTERS and STALLS, smashed by the
shotgun blast.

INT. TEXAS RANGER CAR - DAY 72

Jim's face is flushed with adrenalin as he sees Ryder
recover from the recoil of the shot and revolve at the
waist to aim the weapon at Halsey through the wind-
screen. The kid grits his teeth and twists the keys in
the ignition, pumping the gas pedal for all he is
worth.

The ENGINE WHINNIES and WHINES. It's not working.

Jim ducks down and covers his head with his arms as the
psycho COCKS the sawed-off shotgun and SHOOTS a round
of shot that splinters a section off the steering wheel
and smashes a hole in the stuffing of the seat Halsey
is sitting in. The kid rises up straight to see The
Hitcher walking towards the car on the road, COCKING
the gun and aiming it with the butt resting against his
waist, a skeletal grin on his skull face. Jim shrieks
and winds the key ring in the ignition slot, summoning
a SCRATCHY SQUEALING from the ravaged ENGINE.

John Ryder's eyes shine as he laps his chapped lips and
FIRES the sawed-off shotgun in a licking tongue of
flame. Halsey drops into the passenger seat as the
headrest is blasted to bits and the backshield is blown
out. The kid sucks in air and sits up in his seat,
staring straight into The Hitcher's eyes as the psycho
stops walking and stands twenty feet from the car,
COCKING the shotgun and aiming it with one arm at the
automobile.

Jim crosses his fingers. Halsey SWITCHES on the igni-
tion and slams the stick shift into gear, stomping on
the accelerator.

The MOTOR RAGES on. The Texas Ranger car RIPROARS up
the road in a SCREAM of TIRES.

(CONTINUED)
72

73

92.

CONTINUED: 72

For a single split second the eyes of the kid meet the
eyes of The Hitcher as the shadow of the advancing
automobile fails over his face and the ROAR of the™
ENGINE fills his ears. A relieved smile spreads across
the psycho's mouth.

The bumper of the speeding car surges into the skeletal
scarecrow shape of John Ryder, striking him in the
stomach at 40 MPH.

Jim shouts in satisfaction as the automobile bumps
underneath him as it rolls over the bony body beneath
the wheels. Halsey stares straight ahead as he steers
the car a few more feet and switches off the ignition,
putting on the parking brake. The kid shoves open the
@oor, shouldering out onto --

EXT, INTERSTATE HIGHWAY 10 - DAY 73

Jim stands on the hot tarmac in the wet waves of heat.
He is a sizzling silhouette against the searing fire-
ball of the rising sun in the settling dust.

He lights a cigarette and walks along the bloody tire
tread marks on the blacktop and broken white lines to
the remains cf John Ryder. He stands and stares down
at it, testing it with the toe of his sneaker.

The Hitcher is definitely dead. No doubt about it.

The kid heaves the Colt .45 in his hand into the desert
as far as he can throw it.

The SOUND OF SIRENS shatters the desert silence. Jim
looks up the road to see scintillating red sparkles.

He walks back to the smoking, steaming automobile,
Ealsey climbs up on the hood and sits on it, awaiting
the arrival of the authorities.

He smokes his cigarette in the sunlight of the day.

FADE OUT.

THE END

=

at MERE

 
