doo 4
on

Py Screenplay and (he Slory

 
 

Baa

Johnny’s a 21st-century smuggler.

JOHNNY

The Village Voice

San Francisco Chronicle

ISBN 0-441- 234-¥

  

$1200 US.

 
  
  
   
 
 
 
   
 
    
   
 
    
 

EDITS BEGIN ON BLACK.

FADE UP MUSIC. Slowly, images start to bleed
through. Red swirls, white, black dots... As
more and more of the image bleeds through
the titles we begin to make out what were
watching .. .

EXTERIOR. BEIJING. NIGHT.

EXTREME HIGH ANGLE traveling over an emotional demon-
stration approaching a solid line of sHiELDED riot poLICE. Many
of the PARTICIPANTS wear surgical masks and lab coats. The
black dots identify themselves as their heads, the red-and-
white swirls as banners they are carrying. mostly with Chinese

lettering, but some in English as well as other languages.
“CURE N.A.S. NOW."

CAPTION: BEUING, 2021.

Bellowing through BULLHORNS, pounding STEEL DRUMS,
mouths screaming slogans behind surgical masks, but all the

noise seems filtered, as if its reaching us through some kind of
aural barrier.

A number of the demonstrators suffer from NAS(Nerve Atten-
uation Syndrome), which manifests itself as a crippling palsy.
Wild, angry eyes, twitching limbs.

Traffic is gridlocked. Drivers HONKING their horns inside their
futuristic cars as the demonstration pours through.

We move in on a taxi. hopelessly stuck in the chaos...

NY (voice-over): I'm here.
4 Tae SCRE
RaLM (VO) Did you get it?
Jounny (VO. casually) Sure __-

We are now close on the taxi and look inside.
INTERIOR. TAXI. NIGHT,

RaLrts face on the vid:phone monitor inside. Deceptively chis.
eled features, Jong stringy hair and a sharp suit, Hes sonnnys
agent for this job. Slightly nervous.

RAL: This is a big one.

Johnny. you sure you can carry it? I could
send this new guy.

who's fitted out with the latest __.
ON sonny.

Young. sharply groomed. a conservative dark suit with white
shirt and tie, a bit 100 cool almost. Charming, contdent, slick

He seems supremely at ease. He's playing with a MATCHBOOK
in his hand. The over is getting nervous as

increasingly
Surround the taxi, peer inside. Johnny ignores
the commotion,

Jounny: Ralf, stop worrying. | got upgraded with the MDA-18 this

The demonstrators are SHOUTING. Some of them begin to
rock the taxi back and forth, trying to topple it The driver
wares at them to go away, SHOUTS back in Chinese.

f ---¥You don't have @ thing to worry about, It's under
control,

Johnny hangs up, hands a few bills to the driver and unlocks
the door.

 
 
 
 
    
   
  
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
   
   

tu walk.

tabes his briefcase and opens the door. For the first time,
NOISE hits us FULL BLAST

EXT. TRAFFIC JAM. NIGHT.

2 the anger palpable. Johnny, smiling be-
sewer aoe calmly creates a path through the mob:
his coles benevolent expestaion and unhurtsee ane nes
most people to give way to him. Johnny nods his thanks as
goes.

His luck doesn’t last. One pemonstearor blocks his way.

CREAMING through his surgical mask. Johnny tries to go
around. The demonstrator blocks him. still! SHOUT
Johnny smoothly ducks out of the way and jumps onto the
hood of a car and over. blends into the crowd, smoothly, very
fast.

EXT. DEMONSTRATION, NIGHT.

Johany and pulls ug
emerges from the thick of the crowd
short. ie ee cf ee SN Be ee
police and the battle has been joined. Johnny turns and join:
the running masses, his eyes looking for escape. ‘
people
The riot police wade into the mass of panicked
cuintse amt next to Johnny trips and falls. re
Johnny pauses, helps her up. She grabs him as if he is a
vest, hanging on, still SCREAMING. -
police them, stream past. Johnny whirls
tum ee es out of the street, A cop charge:
them, Johnny blocks a swing from his club with his briefcase
The cop charges past.
5 swing
The next cop resents Johnny blocking his colleague
and grabs him by the collar. Johnny brings up a small tube
trom his pocket, like a breath spray in appearance. In one fast
movement he inserts it under the cop’ Lucite mask and
presses the spray button. The cops mask turns white and wet
with mist. He grabs for his eyes, HOWLING in pain, lets go of
Johnny. Johnny looks around him. The Chinese girl has disap-
peared. Johnny heads for the edge of the masses.

EXT, STREET. NIGHT.

Johnny emerges from the crowd. stops, catches his breath.
Looks down the street. Up ahead, a futuristic high-rise. a
Chinese logo over the entrance. Johnny retrieves the book of
matches trom his pocket, opens it. Inside the cover, hand-
Printed. #2371, He starts toward the tower.

Beijing shimmers in the cold night air. We move back until we
realize we're seeing the view from a hotel suite. Two men are
Jooking out the windows and converse anxiously.

INT. HOTEL SUITE. NIGHT.

The two men are wieTnamese scientists, huddled together
Smaill, frail-looking men in cheap suits. wer @1 reaches to
Partially close the venetian blinds.

eT #2; The courier is late...

eT #1; Be calm.

While they are talhing we move farther back into the room.
revealing FOUR KOREAN BODYGUARDS. KORBAN #1 is enormously
fat, like 4 sumo wrestler gone to seed He puts back an empty
plate next to a MINIATURE GRILL. still burning. on the coffee
table. KOREAN @9 a hewte Auitcter ie channel curiae fnatle

penny ERC ?

settles on a hyper-vioient Japanese cartoon on TV. KOREAN #5.
a woman, chain-smokes while she cleans her automatic. xO-
REAN #4. a cool fashion plate, isnt paying much attention to

anything.
Vet #2 «We should have put it out on the global net while there
was still time.

Vier #1, No. They're monitoring every fragment of transmitted
data. A courier is the only way.

Ver @2 So we hire a criminal, with a silicon chip in his head—

1 A highly skilled smuggler. She chose him. As she chose
us. You must remember that.

  
   
  
  
  
   
     
    
  
  
  
 

INT. HOTEL LOBBY. NIGHT.

Grand and opulent, arrLuenT Guests mill about as if the worlc
outside doesn’ exist. An ORIENTAL BAND plays an Ink Spots tune
on 4 small stage.

Johnny enters the lobby. his suit in place and hair combed.
and walks past a BANK OF VIDEO SCREENS. Most of the
Monitors are showing riot coverage, but all channels are 4
SPEED BARRAGE of images. Johnny joins 4 an who. in his
best tourist mode. is studying a map next to a potted fern.
Following exchange in MANDARIN, subtitles, except Johnny’
fast line and the words “Pemex” and "MDA-18."

You have it?
The man is nervous.

1 couldn't vet one
Ta SCriaNrLar
Johnny looks away in disgust. Anger building.

Man (hurriedly): They had a Pemex doubler . .. The guy said that

should give you nearly the same capacity as the MDA-18.

Jonny: Not even close . . , (sighs) But It'll have to do.

The man hands over a small package. which Jobnng slips into
his pocket. He moves on.

Suddenly, on the monitors. the images start to skate and then
are RIPPED open by a hand. }-s0xe%s computer-altered face
(his eyes are pinpoints, his mouth is huge) appears on all the
monitors. The cadence of his words is like an angry hip-hop
hybrid.

Bont: Snatch back your brain. zombies! Snatch it back and

hold it

J/-Bone’s face changes again, For a brief moment, we see his
undistorted face. He LAUGHS. THE MOVING LOGO of a DOL-
PHIN Vorts) appears on the screen. The sound of dolphin
SQUEAKS. The image is dramatically quiet compared to the
barrage of images that make up contemporary TV

The REACTIONS of the crowd suggest this is not an unusual
disturbance. They're annoyed, resigned. amused.

Johnny heads for the elevators. A cio’ face pops over the
back of a couch. Johnny stops in his tracks, next to a large
fishbowl, For a brief moment, he seems frozen, something
ing on inside his head he has no control over. Then it’s over.

He takes a step back, so his head is behind the fishbowl, grossty
distorted by the glass and the water. Grimaces at the bid.
Brings up his hand, waves with curling fingers. like an octopus.
The child beams.

Crap, Again.

 

JHE MRERENIG 9

But Johnny's playfulness has disappeared as fast as it came and
he’ already moved on to the elevator bank.

INT. STRETCH LIMO. NIGHT.

In the streets near the hotel. stan, @ young, half-Japanese,
half-American, fast-track Yakuza yuppie. cool and analytical.
jong hair in a ponytail, sits in the center. Checks his watch.

FOUR other impeccably dressed “businessmen” and ONE
“businesswoman” around him, all of them impassive, but
tense as they are stuck solid in the riot trathe. Heading for a
“gig.” the traffic jam fraying their nerves.

INT, ELEVATOR. NIGHT,

johnny opens the package. The Pemex doubler is narrow. fiat,
has 4 DIGITAL COUNTER DISPLAY on its side. He peels back
his hair, exposing JACK behind his ear. Inserts PROBE TIP of
doubler. causing a slight involumary spasm. Numbers DE-
CREASE on counter as elevator floor-numbers INCREASE.
He’s relieved when it’s done. disposes of used doubler, com-
poses himselt.

INT, HOTEL SUITE. NIGHT.

Image of riots on the TV. Korean #1 grunts, flicks the remote:
the Japanese cartoon reappears. Door CHIMES, The Korean:
whip out their guns. Koreans #2 and #3 answer it Johnny:
there. holding his briefcase like a pizza box.

Joma: Double cheese. anchovies?

Viet #2 waves the Koreans out of Johnny’ way. Johnny step
into the room. ignoring the Koreans, and, carefully sensin
 

 

 

10
the ene it the suite. crosses to a desk Tabs the scene
with b in expe
#2 You are Me

NN mith

You are late

 

Right

Johnny senses the fear in the room. He steps around Korean
#3 as if she’s furniture. He pushes a button. The blinds rotate.

lock: bers of red neon glare paint the walls. He waves cig

 

Marette

Another button starts the over

 

smoke away with his hand

 

Another button, dimming the lights, The Koreans are both
ered. He ignores them, turns to Viets

You don't look like the kind of people | usually work

 

 

Ter +t. We are new at

     

Viet #2% nerves are reaching the breaking point. The words

stumble out

#2 Pleax

   

¢ approached you through the correct chan
nels. We paid hall in advance into the Swiss account, exactly

as your agent instructed

 
   
   
  
  
  
 
 
   
    
    
  

Jounny:; Yeah .. What I'm saying is | was expecting players
You look like ... missionaries.

Viet #2 holds up an envelope: his hand is trembling

Viet #2. Please! Everything is taken care of. Here's your ticket!
First class!

9: Your storage capacity —
r me Where am I taking it?
“yer #1 Newart

Johnny's face falls

Wet #2 Your storage capacity—
Journey (automatic bullshit: More than adequate.
var #2 It's extremely dangerous, if the upload volume exceeds

It kill you in two or
1orage capacity. Synaptic seepage wi
paring the data may be corrupted and @ coherent

download will be impossible . . .

in see him doing
Johnny realizes he may have a problem, we ¢
the math in his head, figuring the odds, making his snap
decision.

Joy, I dont have a problem with that, okay? (BEAT) Are we
loading or not?

Ver @2, Your ticker

Vier @2 Your agent in Newark will arrange the meet for the
download.

BEAT
JOHNNY: Let's see what you wanna upload.

Viet #) hurriedly produces a manila envelope. Johany goes
over to the door, double locks it. Takes a MOTION DETECTOR
from his brietcase, sticks it on the door frame. He does quick
fest, it BEEPS.

Jounny: Motion detector. In case the natives get restless __

Viet #1 opens the envelope, extracts a small black case. opens
it, revealing a dime-sized CD-ROM

Jory: How much am I carrying?

Viet #1 frowns. Johnny arms the motion detector. A BEEP and
4 red light starts pulsing Johnny checks a small device on his

belt, Another red pulses in unison.
we Viet #1 hands over an envelope.
Viet #1; 320 gigabytes
Jounny Perfect.
ON jonnny.
ticket.

Its way too much but he’ paying no attention. Johnny pockets

The Viets look at one another, silent agreement no other
INNY: Megabytes? cage mee dovapaslagrigen reacts never aged
#2. Gigabytes, case. lining them up on the table near the window,
Jounny: When the counter approaches zero, click on three frames

forniney: When | get there, we feed in the code and download.

Lousy Press that to start the upload.

   
  
  
  
  
   
   
    
   
 
   
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
 

Lifesavers, a credit card. a pair of sunglasses in a hard black
case. The Viets and Koreans stare

Johnny sits at the table.
CLOSE ON HIS HANDS.

As if performing a conjuring trick, he constructs the UPLOAD
DEVICE trom these materials. The final step involves a pair of
fine gold cables; one snaps into the frame of his glasses, the ©
other plugs into the JACK behind his ear. Both cables are then
plugged into the upload device. Johnny hands UPLOAD RE-
MOTE to Viet #1; a small pistol-like unit. This has several
functions: it works like an ordinary TV remote; it can optically
SCAN IMAGES off a TV screen: it TRANSMITS images to up-
Joad unit via INFRARED PULSES, has a COUNTER.

of the TV. Any three. They'll meld with your data and | won't
know what they are. That's the download code. You get

@ hard copy. You fax one copy to your connection on the
other side...

He points over to the FAX MACHINE on the table.

delivery done, Understand?

Viet #1 looks at the remote. Nods. Johnny indicates a button
on the upload device,

Johnny puts some eyedrops in his eyes, puts on the
glasses, about to mabe a mistake that may cost him his
Viet #2, hands trembling. slots the CD in the uploader.

ala.

joann Hit me.

He pops a TOOTH PROTECTOR into his mouth,
CLOSE-UP of mini disc. spinning, speeding into a sitvery biur.

INT, HOTEL LOBBY. NIGHT.

Shinji leads his team into the lobby.

Incongruously. all of them, except for Shinji, are carrying gym
bags We may hear a soft CLANGING sound as one of the bags
brushes against one of the men’s legs.

Shinji directs two of his team to stay in the lobby and precedes
the others to the elevator banks.
INT. ELEVATOR BANK. NIGHT.

CLOSE ON stuns’s HAND.

As he presses the elevator button, We notice the top part of his
right thumb is a metal cap-

HENSON, an American Yabuza, Shinjis right-hand man, can
Henson: These guys: they Viet-ching or what?

; No, Scientists. R&D people from Pharmakom. Defec-
_ tor... Tokyo wants the data. Remember that.

stares at him; Henson gets the message. The DATA. The
Viet Wl:

   
    
   
   
   
  
    
  
   
     
     
  
   
   
 
 
  

formulas, moving molecule constructs, technical models, dia-
grams, etc. coming right at us. Mainlining cyberspace.

Johnay’s body JERKS. his knuckles white on the arms of the
chair. He GROANS, an unconscious sound. Whatever's hap-
pening to him, it isnt nice.

Viets #1 and #2 watch anxiously as he shivers under the
constant psychic impact; he’s jammed back, tight-jawed, in the
chair, His lace distorts in pain.

Viet #1 glancing constantly from the counter to Johnny.

they Te too jaded to care whats going on.

As the COUNTER approaches ZERO. Viet @1 crosses to
UPLOAD REMOTE in hand.

He triggers UPLOAD REMOTE by accident, capturing a
frame from the Japanese cartoon, the CARTOON HERO.
unit on the table BLEEPS as the image is recorded.

Johnny JERKS at the bleep, as the image is recorded on
chip in his brain, (We see the image burn through
point of view in the data-storm) ON viet #1 switching
nels for the SECOND IMAGE. which we dont see. Viet
registers AMAZEMENT as we CUT to television in time to
the face of ANNA morph out of some other image. Her
Viet #15 eyes, CUT TO sounnyS SHARP JERK as a
IMAGE hits him. Then it’s over. Something banal on the
sion.

 

The access code. Three images,

JOEY LC v

The ‘businessmen’ gym bags CLANG as they put them down.
They are zipped open.
A QUICK SERIES OF SHOTS.

As the men extract high-tech, futuristic air guns, cartridges,
SLAM the cartridges into place, check their bulletproof vests
underneath their clothes and otherwise turn themselves intc
walking arsenals. Only Shinji stands calmly, seemingly un-
armed.

INT. HOTEL SUITE. NIGHT.

Johnny SAGS as the barrage ends, white-faced behind the
glasses.

Vier #2: Mr. Smith?

Johnny pulls the glasses off. His eyes are closed. He opens
them. Blinks, Looks up at Viet #2, his eyes scary and blank. He
removes the gold cables and stuffs them in his pocket, moving
4s if he’ on automatic pilot. Gets up. Unsteady on his feet.
Conceals this, but a trickle of blood comes down his nostril.

Jowen Where's the bathroom?
Ver @2 What?
Jowon The toilet

Viet #2 points. Johnny walks through suite. The other rooms
are dark, ES CCR SIRE RCS He enters,

doors open. Shinji and his men walk out anc
haltway
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
    
  
   
  
   
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

jOUNNY. Oh, Jesus, Jesus, shir.

He attempts to stabilize himself, holding HIS HANDS OUT
FRONT OF HIM and BREATHING SLOWLY until they
shaking. It is a meditative exercise we will see him do
later. He feels better. Looks at himself in mirror. Notices
blood. Wipes it off Splashes water on his face

INT. HOTEL, CORRIDOR. NIGHT.

While his men stand back. Shinji UNCAPS HIS THUMB
caretully extrudes a glittering LOOP of filament from
thumb-tip.

INT, HOTEL SUITE. HALLWAY. NIGHT.
Johnny hears a SOUND from the bedroom, notices the

ajar, Moves over.
sounny’s POW

along the edge of the bed. Eyes wide. Silent. Best
clothes. Twenty-frst-century Boat People. One wire is
feeding.
One youna cniLo looks straight at him. His stare solemn.
ON JonNNY.

For 4 flash moment (as when he saw the child in the
seems as if the scene strikes a chord deep inside him.
seems woory, puts a hand against the wall to support

SRHNY UEMONIC v

A soft BUZZ. Johnny checks his belt The motion detector is
otf, Johnny glances at the suite door, The LED there is

- shining solid red. He takes a step back into the bathroom. kills

the light

INT, HOTEL SUITE. NIGHT.

QUICK SHOTS: The Koreans, on the couch, are engrossed in
the Japanese cartoon, The SOUND is back ON.

Vier #2 turns on a FAX machine, holding the code images ta
send out

Viet #1 is toasting the micro-CD over the coober, holding it ir
the steel chopsticks.

INT. HOTEL. CORRIDOR, NIGHT.

Shinji and his men square themselves off, exchange looks.
Shinjl nods, WHIPS the flament-loop down, toward the door-
knob.

INT. HOTEL SUITE. NIGHT.

CLOSE ON THE TV
A hyperkinetic explosion of Japanese cattoon-blood.
ON THE DOOR.

As the loop pops through it like a knife through butter, scoop:
ing out the knob and lock.

CLOSE ON THE MICRO-CD.
in the steel chopsticks; its sagging. starting to melt.
#1 and #2 burst through the door. followed by
  
   
    
  
  
    
 
   
   
 
   
    
 
  
  
   
  
    
  

Te SCRaaPLAY Seen RERONIC 2
QUICK CUT surreal slaughter scene as Shinjis men
whelm the Korean bodyguards. (Note: The Yahuza are
with sophisticated, relatively silent air guns, the Koreans
traditional ballistic guns).

Yakuza #1 shoots Korean #1 as hes rising from the
attempting to draw a massive folding-stock automatic.
rean #1 is blown across the room, crashing into the
Korean #1% gun strates a trail of bullets across the ceiling as
falls.

Yakuza #2 blows away Korean #3, who tries to take
behind one of the pillars.

Henson turns lett toward the bathroom and the
advances. The bathroom door is open, dark inside . . .

Korean #4 hits Yakuza #2 with a salvo. The bullets
harmlessly otf the Yakuza’s bulletproof vest. For a
the Korean stands in shock, then he dives behind the
Yakuza #2 riddles the sofa with bullets, Stufting tlies. Ke

#45 wrist flops out from behind the sofa, remains moti Shinit hunges for the paper ht its

Henson reaches the bathroom, enters cautiously. He consumed. One-half (one of the two remaining images) has
for the light switch, fips it. Johnny SLAMS the door closed: been destroyed. Shinji is furious. He grabs the fone survivor.
horrifed Viet #1. All the others in the room are dead.

being pulled into the fax machine.

"Yet #2 notices Johnny is heading for the table, understands
- jmmediately He steps toward Johnny.

Johnny lunges forward, but Shinji filament sings through the
ait Johnny snatches the paper from the fax machine, just as
the filament cuts through it. Hes left holding only a single
image. Theres no time for more, The filament also cuts
through a stone statue in its lethal path.

Johnny dives for the door and rolls. Hes very last. The next
moment he’ gone. Behind him, the wall is STRAFED with
bullets.

Yabuzas #1 and #2 sprint after him, blocking Shinjis target

Vier #2 has picked up the remaining code images and reaches
for the flames in the cooker, but Shinji whips his filament ana
severs his hand, which falls right on the edge of the cooker.
still clutching the code. The flames reach for the paper. quickly
singeing one side.

 

Staxa, You. Where's he going? Where's he taking the data?
CLOSE ON THE MICRO-CD.

Falling into cooker as Viet #2 lets go of it. He crouches
fatalistically waiting to be shot.

Johnny appears in the doorway, sizes up the situation in
instant. His eyes take in the access code. The doorway.

Shinji notices Johnny, moves forward.
CLOSE ON THE ACCESS CODE.

Viet #1 is too scared to speak.

In the next room, a baby begins to CRY. A slow smile spreads
Across Shinji's face.

FIRE STAIRS. NIGHT.

  

faces down the steps. He jumps over the railing onte
Janding and keeps running. In the process, he re-
   
   
  
 
    
    
  
  
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
    
   
  
  
  
  
 
 

verses his tie, runs his hands through his hair. gray streaks
appear. He takes a folded hat from his pocket. pushes it out,

JONEEY MBEHONIC x
INT. NEWARK AIRPORT. CUSTOMS. NIGHT.
A SERIES OF MRI IMAGES.

Scanning through a human body. OVER THIS. airport sounds
FLIGHT ANNOUNCEMENTS. etc.

A customs ormcer. Hispanic. looks at the monitor as the
ARRIVALS file through his booth, each head and body very
much the same. Suddenly. one head is different, an IMPLANi
shows, something angular and inorganic in the brain, Ar
ALARM sounds.

Johnny stops and looks over to the Customs Officer.

corner. The skin tone is changing betore our eyes.
RUNNING STEPS on the stairs above him...

INT. HOTEL LOBBY. NIGHT,

An Oriental traveling salesman, his gait stiff, his
sloped, emerges into the lobby. Shinjis guards don't even
him a second look as he walks straight through the lobby
out the door.

Only the child for whom he did the little trick in the
when he came in, stares after him. puzzled. On the brink
recognition.

Just as Johnny walks out, the trailing Yakuza explode into

Jounny It's all right, it's government approved. Dyslexia pros-
thesis.

He hands over a laminated card. The Customs Officer reads
i, punches in the number. Looks back up to Johnny, suspi-
clous ... checks his monitor. Back at Johnny. For a mo-
ment we think Johnny's blown. BEAT.

sean You may have a problem here . .. Looks like
implant is discharging .. . seepage Better get it cheched
immediately. “

Gracias.

 

The child looks over to the Yabuza. frowning. He doesnt
them.
Gets a grin from Customs Officer.

EXT. NEWARK. NIGHT, takes back his card and moves on, turns the corner ot

ESTABLISHING SHOT of the city. Many areas are ROME I

dark. As if deserted. Very different from futuristic and
Beijing.

CAPTION: FREE CITY OF NEWARK.
  
 
  
  
   
   
 
   
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
    
 
   
  
 

1a SCHEMA Jie mace .

Impeccably attired in the conservative suit of the Japa EXT. FORMAL JAPANESE GARDEN/OFFICE. NIGHT.

“company man,” He is the Yakuza head for this sector of N
America.
Stoical and melancholy. he’ lie a Roman legionnaire

down the fort in Wales; he may be a gangster, but in 4 sei
hes the law in this neck of the woods

Takahashi’ olfice is open to a covered indoor Japanese forma
garden. Shinji executes a negligent. almost insolem bow a
Tabahashi enters. Takahashi nods and walks to his desk.

Tamas: You look well. Asia agrees with you.
He looks at Shinjis capped thumb. smiles contemptuously

Shinto shrine strikes a false note. Tawusii: | see you have found a way to turn your shame into ar
Takahashi is watching...

His eight-year-old daughter. auxrvo, play in a pool of light in
comer of the room. Her back is half turned. her short black h
mating a neat line against her white neck His concentrati

completely on her game.

Amsvo. (addressing a doll). Now, Mopmop, if you and SI ir
can't play nicely, I'm going to have to separate you

Shinji instinctively folds his thumb underneath his hand.

a eee My condolences, Tabahashi-san. on your recent

Takahashi switches to Japanese, as if he didn't hear Shinji.

WASH: I've seen the report from Tokyo. Pharmakombinat In-
Tabahashi remains expressionless, but there is a sad ten dustrie of Zurich have engaged us to recover their missing
ness in his eyes that contrasts with the evident hardness of data.
features. A KNOCK on the door. As if caught at so
Takahashi quickly pushes a button on a hand-held remote.
daughter DISSOLVES AND VANISHES Our ——
She was a hologram all along. Pharm moma ee

The door opens, spilling a shatt of light across the bed,
SUCRETARY enters

Shinji also switches to Japanese

dat Sto say. a nearly complete failure.

Secreta: Sorry to disturb you, Mr. Takahashi . . : And the mnemonic courier escaped. He is

Taxanasi) (grimy. . Shinji has arrived,

He gets up and exits the room. nok thtormed at ones?
and leaves. Takahashi looks at the image. A frame
RIOTS. He presses the intercom. ee”

 
  
   
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
     
  
 
  
  

$ ‘Tet SCRNPLAY

vant.  I.did not wish to disturb you in your time of grief. It must
terrible to lose a child. an only child, especially so young . .

assumed you were .. . unavailable.

Get me Kari Honig.

Shinjis sympathy is a deliberate torment, an attempt to

blame on Tekohash Apause. oan vid-phone clicks on. Sequence of gener
istian religious images

TAKAHASHE: We are Yakuza, | am ahvags available. What Is om « ‘ '

nature of the data?
Sins: 1am not at liberty to say.

Tabahashi smiles coldly.

TakaMasHi: Because you do not know?

‘Deacontss (VO) Church of the Retransfiguratio
deductible contribution to... Pew

The image furs with green static and is replaced 5
on which we see I-Bone =e

KBont: Make your own images and
Direct hit ‘ man race is waiting for you. . asa ica
+-Bone’s image explodes into a fast-forwa
2 wd LoTex VIDEO-
SCRATCH, set to music. Takahashi
: i is
intercom switch, appalled. He flips the

Stitt have been charged with recovering the head of the
rier. Crpogenically preserved.

TAKAHASHI: Preserved?

Summ: The defectors wiped the Pharmakom maintrame.

lose the courier, we've lost the data forever : Our lines are triple-shielded, we have our own

satellites and
‘ still my private line ts invaded by these Lotek
Takahashi switches to English.

Taxanasi: Newark is mine. You were insolent when you
here under me and you have not changed. You will
me. If the courier is in my territory, | will be

understand you obtained part of the courier’s download Glowers at the Lotek video. It breaks up into static.

MISS Billing the office.
No reaction from Shinji
NIGHT.
Taxanasi, Give it to me

Shinji deliberates, then shrugs. produces the singed
paper, hands it over. executes another of his

the back of a junker speeding
through potholed
Of Newark. The pervex is visibly nervous in this
   
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
   
 
  
  
   
   
  
 
 
  
 
  

3 na SCHENAT
Johnny. looking terrible, talks to Ralf on an antique
phone as he changes back from salesman to his usual
We INTERCUT the conversation with exteriors as the
drives through the stark wasteland to its destination.

jounny: I'm way overloaded, man. You wouldn't believe
much—

Rati (VO) Johnny-boy, you told me you got upgraded

Jounny: Yeah, yeah, | did. 1 got the goods, Ralf Now | just
get ‘em out of my head! Did they get the code out?

Raut (VO) Dont worry, Johnny-boy, they say they can
easy
A huge reliet. But Johnny doesn’ betray it in his voice.

Jounny: “They” who? What's going on, Ralf? This feels like a blo
deal, man... | don't even know this shithole of a town,

gonna be completely exposed —

Ratt (VO) Johnny-boy, Johnny-bog, has Ralf ever let you
Delivery is confirmed. You say you have to get data
they're the only ones who can do it You have no choice:

JOHNNY, Okay, I'll check this place out

Raut (VO) Be careful. Let's have a drink later, all right? Meet
to-face. after all this time-

Jounny Yeah, sure.

He breaks the connection. Takes out the single code
from his pocket. Looks at it, Frustrated. Worried.

CUT TO.
INT. DROME BAR. NIGHT.

Set in a plush, old, converted theater, this is one
and about as weird as it gets—weirder, even.

SUEY MRE NERIC 29

Some very heavy customers. rough trade of every conceiv-
able persuasion. plus a healthy leavening of latex-clad jaiibait
to die for. Some of the customers, though. are victims ot
Nerve Attenuation Syndrome (NAS). They jive and jitter, hard
as they may try to be inconspicuous.

Railfi is at the corner table that serves him as an office. He’s a
‘talent agent” for various kinds of underworld professionals.
Ne ee

Yomomma is black, Pretty white and blond; otherwise
coulttans bento Gian inesoms tk enaaae ae,
sional Balicrusher. They work for Rath.

Ralfi hangs up the vid-phone. exchanges a glance with Pretty
and Yomomma and tts the phone again. Dials =

AT THE BAR.

SMIDER, a startling blend of computer geek and surfer/muscle
peeraalbemibd enaind aernsm He’ very on edge. wears
er hn homer eas lennsstbnieedatgre who is sitting next

. A wannabe. She’ taut and edgy, in shintight jeans anda
leather jacket with the sleeves tipped out. Leans forward.
hungry and intense. She keeps looking over at Rallis table.

Sub hits on de nee ier ne Temes
Ustening!? shop for some tests... Hey! Are you even

We aren't playin’ “doctor” anymore, remember?

| Hey, that's not what I—

at
cu from hell. They're old! Tm

Worried about your speed, I'm worried about your

    
 
 
 

 
   
   
   
   
 
   
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 

oO Tek SCREINPLAY JOY EINE 3

She isn really listening, her attention is on Ralfi as he
into his phone. As soon as he hangs up. she gets up and.
over to his table. Spider looks after her. Angry. Jealous.

AT THE TABLE.

Ralh looks up as Jane struts up, concentrating on
street fighter charisma. Pretty moves to block Jane.

Rat Pine. Just hold it there.

Silence. He watches Jane’ hand. We wait for
something tc

Jane: So?
Ralhs pober-faced

Jane: What?
: Just hold it there.

Peery: No way—

But Pretty’ too-casual swing backfires. Jane intercepts it,
ning Pretty off balance: a very slick move. Ralfis mouth
open: Jane is in his lace.

Jane: Your hired muscle’s aging on you, Ralfi. | coulda done
Time you hired some young and fast.

Pretty (hissing with fury: You—crazy—lithke—street
bitch—

Flash of fear in Jane.

“Rar: You can hold it there, baby... can't you?
Wave: Sh-sure ..

Ralf studies her. Almost interested. He holds up his
Yomomma, keeping her off.

CLOSE-UP ON Jane’ hand as it starts to TREMBLE Before
the
tremor can increase. she grabs Rallis wrist. She is fast.

Rart Like you? (desperate). See?

Peetr: You gonna be shitting out of a plastic bag.

Jane (selling) You agent for all the best combat artists in town.
the fastest thing going now Spider's jacked my system.

Rau You fast, huh? (BEAT) Hold out your hand.

Ralf stares at her coldly, untit Shakes
Yomomma laughs, cruelly she lets go. his head

You' :
pup anie Goods, bitch. Spider-man’s jacked

Jacked her so tight. she shakes ..
Another month of neo, you'll be like them i

     
  
 
 
 
  
  
  

Puts out his hand. flat, palm down, held about six inches
the table. Jane, thinking her speed is about to be tested:
how, pulls back her sleeve, makes a fist; CLOSE on
forearm, faint ruler-straight lines of scariication
ders worked on her, She puts out her hand as well.

 

fo trembling victims of NAS at the bar, beer slopping
Nes glass as he tries to drink. ns
JOHNNY PENEAIC

 

   
   
     

 

 

Burt | cant use you. Not for muscle. Yo id be bi
thougt met E 4
sees eeseeeeee eeeeneeeeeseese bsentlp sizes uz wre piching f h
You: Ye Like on pour back
f 1OWLS w
Porrr ar knee

as if she could go ballistic. but she bottles it in

 

 

eeeaeeceeeeeeeaeeeeeeerrerrrrrr”

 

 

Me P s laptop. Jane vanishes into th rs
a 1
EXT. RATLANDS. NIGHT.
Ricky ‘
Th ; es
eeeeeesesesenest _
lon
ah % =
EXT PACTORY GIRDERS. NIGHT
SQuinting down thr the Lotek

      

 

her, Walches Jc Minny
MON Of the Loren
PGS, Nect-tho,

Ongs str with tools and b

He has an AIR Bi IW slung ¢

listinctive ¥
costume, which

   

Ivers, ragged

 

    

of high-tech

  
  
  
  
      
  
 
   
   
   
 
    
  
  
  
  
      
  
 
 
  
  
   

JOHNNY MAEM 3

Toad, thitteen, a young Lotek, comes strolling out on smiles indulgently. He stands aside to let Johnny in
girder behind him. But we're thirty feet up. here. Te hesitantly steps in.
casual as if he’s gooting in the playground. 5 POR

Quick pan along the length of a table spread with whit

plastic. At the far end, a CRYO-UNIT. a patented head freezer
AGLITTERING array of surgical tools.

Henson, HEAVILY BANDAGED. wearing surgical gloves, step:
forward. Smiles.

4 tit SCatinnay

foap: Yo, J-Bone, maximum leader, sir. Watcha clockin?

J-Bone’s not pleased at being interrupted. He gestures for
to shut up. Indicates Johnny scurrying closer. Toad joins
Squats next to him.

J-Bone raises the monocular to his eye again, watches

as he approaches the ruins of an old building. » Doctor will see you now,

EXT. RATLANDS. NIGHT. _ Johnny calmly turns to Laslo, who is now blocking his way.
You lied.

Ruins of a factory and outbuildings. Near a river,
Yeah...

the shadow of a BRIDGE. :

Inside, a burnt shell of a building with blacked-out
strip of light leaks under the warped door.

Johnny’s hand reaches for his watch, presses a button
THE MOTION DETECTOR EXPLODES. right behind Lasto

_ Johnny immediately headbutts Lasio, then grabs his arm and
throws him forward across the table. Instruments flying. Laslo

EXT. RATLANDS. NIGHT.

Johnny skirts the building. checking it out. Moves up
door. Removes the motion detector from his belt.
IT TO THE DOORIAMB, He bends over and tries to
through the crack. The door opens inward, fast. Johnay’s
level with LASLO’s cowboy-booted ankles.

soon ocala Henson goes after him with a
HIGH. IN with silencer, skeletal
sight stock, telescopic laser

EXT. RATLANDS
LasLo: You're Johnny. NIGHT.

lonnny (steps back): Am I?
LASLO: Sure hope so. Come on in,

v ducks into rubble, Henson stalks him. He good at this.

 

We got all night, white meat.

fo where J-Bone and Toad look down, observing

Lasio is a streetiyhter, the kind of foot soldier the Yakuza’
Toad starts to speak: J-Bone claps palm across his

to bring along for operations in these bad-ass anarcho,
town. Johnny hesitates, suspicious.
Bone; Toad!!!

E-Bone: Toad, Toad, shit, man...

HENSON: You weren't on the menu, but | want you to do

}-Bone: Do?

   
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
    
  
   
    
    
  
  
  
   
   

1 SCUNPLAY

Johnng. hiding in the rubble below, picks up a length of
steel bar; hefts it in his hand.

JOHN MERON ai
Yes. Say: "Bye"...

Henson’ finger tightening on trigger. We hear a sound like
someone slugging a watermelon with a baseball bat: Hensor,
falls forward and we see Johnny with a length of waterloggea
two-by-four in his hands. J-Bone looks up at him

(OS): Just hold it right there.

Johnny turns, Sees Lasio has the drop on them with an assault
ritle, J-Bone smiles broadly at Lasio, lifts his arm, ZING. A smah
crossbow on his wrist releases a bolt. Laslo staggers, falls tace-
first in a puddle. J-Bone turns back to Toad.

Johnny picks up Henson’ gun, Snaps off the laser sight and
tosses it in a puddle. Then the silencer. then the stock. He’ left
with a squat. brutal-looking PISTOL. J-Bone watches.

It lands near Henson, who whips the gun up and fires.

Overhead, Toads been shot underneath his chin, He
reach up, loses his bilance, tumbles to the ground,
dead,

You tooling up for an evening of it?
Wf they think you're technical. go crude

-- It they think you're crude, go technical, {ih-huh. How-
ever you gonna go, you and | are even now, understand?

Toad crashes into the rubble. J-Bone runs back along
disregarding his own safety completely. He starts
the structure.

Johnny watches from hiding. Henson checks Toads
nudges it with his shoe, resumes his search.

J-Bone runs to Toad’s body. Kneels beside it, cradting the
bos’ head.

His look says Johnny wont get any favors. He scoops up the
LASER SIGHT, shakes it dry. estimates its usefulness, stults it in
4 pocket

Who are you?

Looks up into the muzzle of Henson’s gun, inches from his Tm I-Bone. | run Heaven, Up there.

ts (0. bridge looming in the distance. For the first time

Patched
thing for me... underneath, like an insect nest, 4 mabeshift
}O a SCHNrLAT
Your a lead wnt get this batch of product out
— grabbed t hind and somma hurts him
thirst against a ste je dox the
Ra N the hee ‘ re < head!
omma shrugs, looks around
Yomomma: Thaven't been in one of these in years
Rauf (rubbing his cheek, furious) Not since you had a dick, yes?

aLFL (sympatiretic) How you feeling

    
      
 

 

   

   

 

Now get him into the back room

Yomomma tilts Johnny up like a broken doll

INT. DROME BAR, NIGHT.

  

 
 

  

4T THE BAR

tal prosthetic forearm :
fi ne one Oy

th a s i *
box 2 YAKLA a
hk he di s®
px we box °
.
*»

INT. DROME BAR, BACK ROOM. NIGHT.

BLURRY POV.

Of the ceiling, slowly coming into focus. Ralfis face Pi
"

> tries to reach for his head. Finds hes
legs are free) His pis

Remains calm

 

back an a table (his

wortes th

     
Ni: )©6We'll need a bucket

Tae SCURRY

 

 

f nat
Ww sack of
hit
Wha / Ar « u not
- 2 ‘ the
k eng f surgice w rte
rial shur t he a h ch er hey

 

INT. DROME BAR. MEN'S ROOM. NIGHT

eeeeeeeeeseseses

INT. DROME BAR. VENTILATION DUCT. NIGHT
Pulls he

INT. DROME BAR. BACK ROOM. NIGHT

 
a4 De CHAT

Porrry, Well. it's not sterile .

Stan will do, Put it there. beside the table

Joewor, Can't we talb about this?

Seaney Tall?

Jotoorr. Thave one image of the access code. pou have the
too. ll give you the data. everybody happy,
BEAT Shinji rwiddling the shunt

Simi No. You don't understand. They don't just want the
They want everything it's ever been stored in.

ft dawns on Johnny that Shinji is talking about cutting off
head, His eyes widen as he looks at the cryo-unit with
understanding of its purpose. °

Sreuntt: There's less danger of information decay. And we
have to worry about anyone going in with advanced
technology... These days, you see, dead men can tell

Shinji puts the shunt down, goes to the unit, snaps it open.
of super-chilled air. Clicks crpo-unit shut.

Jou There} gotta be a way to work this out—
Sraxn There is

He tales a small rubber ball, puts it in Johnny's mouth.
him. He rounds the table. picking up shunt

INT, DROME BAR. VENTILATION DUCT. NIGHT.
sane’s POV through a small grate, watching, braced

awkward position, Under her weight, the welded joint
ducts is beginning to sag, She shifts her weight.

    
 
    
   
    
  
   
  
  
 
    
  
  
  
    
   
   
  

Jeane ae ou
INT. DROME BAR. BACK ROOM. NIGHT.

Shinji pulls down a plasticine mask over his lace, examine
the razor edged point of the shunt. Checks to mabe sure the
rubber tube us in the bucket

“Youomma Will you hurry up?! This is kinda disgusting, pou stop
to think about it

Shinji smiles. He traces the line of the artery in Johany’s neck
with one finger...

INT. DROME BAR. VENTILATION DUCT, NIGHT.

Jane is horrifed by the spectacie. She tests the joint beneath
her, makes a decision, draws her knees to her chest and drops
her weight full onto the joint, which immediately gives way.

INT. DROME BAR. BACK ROOM, NIGHT.

She lands on the table in a shower of chest A section of pipe
swings down, sending Shinji sprawling. stunning him

What the fuck .._?

Preny goes for lane and gets a very solid. Pery expert Bick in
the head Preay goes down.

Yomomma puts an expensive-looking SPRING-KNIFE to
Johny neck. The blade SNAPS OUT. right on the button for
Johnny's prgutar

Jane counters instantiy. fipping out her own WEAPON. «
carantenna with a nasty fang of steel welded at
tip. The blade bobs. CU, like the tip of a fly rod in front of
APPR RRR RR SRST RRR E RRR E EERE HTT OUaY HED

 

Pretry

a

 

Jane wrrir wound.
See ee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee

 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
   
 
  

7
“a ne sCrnnruar eeany NEHOC ‘
. Ralf falls to
Ralf, bent double. clutching his crotch. edges toward The filament whips through the aif. once. twice
door... the floor in three neat pieces.

Shinji poised to use the filament on Jane, but Johnny jumps
the table and heaves it at Shinji. The pistol falls to the

The Yakuza guard bursts into the room. Jane instantly
him out with a NINJA THROWING SPIKE square in the
of his forehead. She has the second spike ready before
can get out. He smiles sickly.

EXT. DROME BAR, STREET. NIGHT.

HIGH POV watching from fire escape
Johnny dives for the pistol, jumps up, holds it on Shinji, jens tarts clawing through the contents of a trash pile. Johnny
up. moves Ralf over next to Shinji with a gesture of the looks back nervously.

Shinji and Rath freeze, but Jane jumps on Yomomma,

was ready to get Johnny in the back, and starts whaling Jounne What the fuck are you doing?

Jane pulls a battered shoulder bag trom the pile. Shoves
Jounny: It's okay, | got the gun. Johnny ahead of her.

Jane beeps going. a staggering combination of blows.

lant: Move!!
EXT. ALLEY. NIGHT.

Johnny stumbles against lange poster. “NERVE ATTENUATION
Jane finally snaps to and realizes what she's doing. She gets ‘SYNDROME. ITS NOT YOUR PROBLEM—YET.” with big
eyed NAS poster-child.

lane Run!!!

Jouxny, Enough!!!

Here comes Pretty. Shinji appears behind Pretty, aims past het
They back toward the door, Slip through. Just as Johnny fires a BURST.

PUFFS of shredded paper on the head of the child in the NA:
poster, where Shinjis shots land.

th
turns. aims the pistol, CLICK. Disgusted, he tosses
away and runs. Jane, clutching her bag. on his heel:

tries to aim again, but Pretty ts in the way.
rae CUPL?

EXT. STREETS. NIGHT

   
  

 

Johnny looks back. Pretty is gaining. They run into a masegi
alleys

nn
Ov

 

er garbage, past

 

EXT. ALLEYS. NIGHT.

    

rdboard shack

Assorted HomeELess are here, int

some with NAS. Jane leads Jolinny deeper into the “campl

HINT

 

EXT. ALLEYS. NIGHT.

vce with STACKED BUILDING MATERIALS, etc. Dark.

grabs Johnny, clasps her hand over his mouth

 

  

(whispers): I've gotta get out otf here

winded) No. Stand. Til take ‘er

KOM « Sh BOX
sow

 

+ Something RUSTLES. Shinji tracks

  

  

 

   
  
  
  
  
    
   
 
    
  
    
  
     
    
  
    
   
 
  
    

52 Tit SCutiNPLAy

Shinji from low angle, its a group of Lorex KIDS.

Jen mann 5

_ _ HOWLS as she grabs finger, forcing him to his knees, dislocat
ing his finger. J-Bone raises his brows

}-Bone: Temper, sister.
we: Temper my ass. I-Bone.

But they're in their way. Shinji SMILES. makes a
COCKING the gun and aiming it at one of them. BEAT.
AS ONE. the Lotek kids draw their WEAPONS. Some
have knives, but others have a variety of SPRING-DRIVE,
JECTILE WEAPONS. Their expressions haven't changed.

arent about to move. The kid in Shinji’ sights slowly crack
tough urchin grin.

BEAT, as Shinji gets the picture: He can shoot one or two,
the others will get him. The RED DOT of a laser sight
on Shinji’s white shirt. Pretty backing off.

J-Bone steps from the shadows, his air bow in his arms.

Shinji smiles sickly. turns his head to notice a NUMBER OF
yAauza arriving. Pretty is gone. The red dot remains

shirt. Its a standolf, Shinji backs up slowly to the,
his men

J-Bone smiles. He leads them toa corner, pushes a large stab oi
plpwood to one side, exposing a hidden exit.
J-Bont; Our back door...

Johnny and Jane pass through the opening. JsBone turns to
neo of his Loteks.

J-Bont, Follow them. ..
EXT. STREETS, NIGHT.

Johnny and Jane come running down the street

A Yabuza limo rounds the corner in the distance. tires
SQUEALING

Shit

Jane tabes a few steps toward a manhole and heaves up the
fitty-pound COVER She SHOUTS over the CLANG as it hits
the pavement

» Down!

Summ: We'll find you again, Mr. Smith. Count on it . ..

Johnny and Jane watching from the carton maze
Yakuza close rank around Shinji. The Lotek kids Johnny scrambles down; she follows. The tires of the limo hiss
JEER. J-Bone walks up to Johnny. Past, @ few feet away, BEAT. The feet of the two

proach the ma Loteks ap-
I-Bone: Said we were even, Now you owe me one.

» CHURCH OF THE RETRANSPIGURATION. NIGHT.

PREACHERS VOICE BOOMS dim and hollow trom
church as we TILT DOWN from sign to Yakuza LIMO
up.

He nods at them to follow him. A couple of LOTEK }
proach Jane, One GRINNING LOTEK kip, near Jane,
breasts

LOTEX KID: When'd you grow those, Janey? (VO) Some teach that these are the Final Days
  
 
   
   
   
  
   
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
   
   
   
  
   
  
   
 
 
   
 
 
 

4 tae SCE

Others lose Faith utterly, brothers and sisters, but let usn
numbered among them . ..

JUMMNT NEMEC §&

places cryo-unit and vid-phone on floor, bows to Street
Preacher, exits. Takahashi appears on the small screen.

oriver getting out with VID-PHONE and CRYO-UNIT, ei
church.

J 4 (VO, filter. Good evening, Karl... | require your ser-
vices. Again.

‘Sreert PREACHER: We hold services nightly... You should join us.
sui (VO, filter): Your talent, | should say...

STREET Preacnek (contd): ...We have seen a new way, a
light. In this plague time, our goal is the vision of
transfiguration,

t Preacher rises, turning to face vid-phone.
INT. CHURCH OF THE RETRANSFIGURATION. om ve

Preacnem, You wish someone ... brought to Jesus?

burgundy robe, clutching an ornate INVERTED CRUCI Street Preacher smoothly flips his crucifix, revealing the

WICKED BLADE that protrudes from Christ’ head, and show:
the vid-phane.

STREET Preactin: To go forward, unflinching into the ane

His tectnology— Street Peeacnen; ... Or brought to you?

CHORUS of amens. He lets his robe fall open as he Tans (VO, filter: To me -. . But not entirely.
arm; we see many scars of implant surgery.
Street Preacher frowns. Takahashi explains.
iTREET Preactem I stand before you naked in the house of G
whole and strong! |. who was as you are! And I was mad
posthuman.

(VO, filter). His head. Intact. The brain undamaged.
Preserved in a cryo-unit.

Petacten And who is this Jost soul . . . this sinner unre-

The word ‘posthuman™ sends a special shiver through mikgan

CROWD.

CLOSE ON Street Preacher as he notices the Yakuza @
entering the church.

st (VO, filter; A mnemonic courier. Not local, Name o!
“Johnny.” Last seen at a club called the Drome . ..

Street
‘TREET Preacner: | sense a need for meditation, bro Preacher frowns,

sisters... Leave me now . . . The sermon is ended. Pr (wnbigens ai The very paced |
, (VO, fitter). Triple your usual fee if you deliver his head

Street Preacher turns to the altar, kneels
prayer. Congregation shuttles from chapel. Driver
  
  
  
   
    
   
   
   
  
   
   
  
   
    
   
   
 
  
  

enn menaiC 5

FLASH FRAME. Johnny stumbles. wincing. clutching his heac
Almost doubled over with pain

36 Te SCOSENPLAY

Srmeet Preacner: Join me in the chapel, Mr. Takahashi.
with me

jae: Hey! What's wrong!?

After a moment, he pertorms the same meditative exercise we
saw in the hotel bathroom. Gets control over the pain. He
turns back to Jane.

Takahashi looking at vid-phone image of Street Preacher.

Taxanastt; Do not fail me, Karl.

Jounny. Junkie in Bangkok taught me that Used to be a holy
man...

He starts walking.
we: You from round there?

The screen goes blank.

INT. ABANDONED SUBWAY. NIGHT.

Jane has pulled a flashlight from her bag. Lights the way.
Johnny's not interested in conversation, FLASH FRAME The

pain comes back. Even worse. He stumbles against the wall,
goes down on his knees. . .

Jounny: | have to get on-line . . . must be somebody I can
square this—

Jang: Fifty thou, You said. Time | see the color, right?

Jounny, Right. You were terrific. So if you'll just point the way
and give me an account number for the cash transfer—

Jane: [Tm on you till you pay, mister. no mistake.

1 Come on... over here...
She gets him up, leads over to a ledge.

No... Tve gotta

BEAT er

Man ... You are fucked up severe

Jane (contd) How come they wanna cut off your head.
I mean, usually they just kill people, around here.

Jounny: Long story.

Jane: I'm not going anywhere till | get paid.

Jounny: | can carry nearly eighty gigs of data in a
sixty if | use o doubler. Trouble is, somebody's st jem

back , Moving silently, leaving him alone in the

more than that and | dont know how to get it He sinks back on the ledge and cradles his head in his

lant. You're @ smuggler.

Checking his pupils with her tight

Something SPLASHES in the dark
Der light off . behind them, Jane snaps
  
   
 
  
   
 
  
    
  
  
    
   
 
   
   
    
  
  
 
  

i] Cum
INT. TAKAHASHI'S OFFICE. NIGHT.

great elegance and control. Sword in hand, Takahashi

Shinjl across the fallen bodies 7
Takahashi at his desk. a 3-D vid-sbetch of Annas face on
monhor. : 1 gave you no permission to have Kobuns.
Taxamas (10 himself) I've seen pou, | know . . . Before

He punches commands, faces flip from the image bank,
faying Anna’, Joobing for a match.

Tabahashi watches for 4 moment, then gets up, goes
cabinet in the comet, opens the door. which has a Takahashi scrutinites the tatoos without comment. Tabahast
the inside. He tabes a clean white shirt from a neat stack points his sword at one of the designs

shell and removes the one he is wearing. revealing his (in Japanese’. What does this ,

Shinji foobs from the tattoo to Tabahashi, then, very deliber

As Tabahashi the fresh shirt, he HEARS
ee ately, answers in English

don. He reaches inside the cabinet. removes and

an antique samutal sword. ie
The door opens. Shinji enters with two of his men, an
can and a Latino. Anxious secretary behind them BEAT

Sremetazy You can't just wall It ls misspetied

Tabahashi mods to her. Its all right. Shinji gives an Shinjts eves are on the sword
bow. His henchmen explore the office. Tabahashi
them. (in Jopanese, looking down at the bodies)

, are
to have been dispatched with such a ne nnn

Tacanasit (in Japanese) Who ore these men? . Twice you have attempted to capture
lory, Twice you have failed. In neithe:
Stat: They are my Kobuns. ne
informed. That must not happen again.

Tabahashi moves libe lightning He kills the
single. expert, lightning stroke. He bills the Latino.
started to draw his gun, with two strokes. Very
TAKAHASHt Locate him. Inform me. | will supervise his

Swinit Yes, sir.
TAKAMASHL: =I want his head before morning. Is that clear?

Jounny, You let me sleep!?

   
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
    
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
   
 
  
    
   
 
 
  
  

ta SCHRNPLAY HOY ENDL 6
gum wrappers. crumpled money, throwing spikes, sunglasses
credit cards, A HAND GRENADE on a key chain with a MINIA-
TURE TROLL and a BEER OPENER... She grabs it.

Understood?

jounny: What's thar?

Shinji bows. leaves. Takahashi steps around bodies,
the monitor on his desk.

ON THE MONITOR.
Still searching through the parade of faces. . .

Jane quickly puts the stuff back into her bag

It's a beer opener.

INT, VILLA. STUDY. DAY. She recovers her poise. Johnny returns to the issue at hand.
Grainy. faded home movie quality. Inside a haxurious but:
study, a few childs toys are scattered. A WOMAN is at
behind the desk, her head bent over, so we cant see her:
The lighting is behind her, turning her into an ominous
ence. A cH’ POV hesitantly approaches the woman . -
moves in. the image bleaches. glitches... We hear a

CUT TO.

I tok you, Tm in a hurry Tm a dead man, don't get this
out of my head . .

He hoists himself up. He becomes aware of his bloody

wipes it olf. As he does so, he notices HIS HAND 1s oddly
folded, two of the fingers are curled inward. He untolds them,
but when he lets go they curl inwards again. He hides his hana
from Jane. but shes seen it He starts walking. Jane tries to

Mabe conversation.
INT. UNDERGROUND TUNNEL. NIGHT.

Johnny wakes up with a start. His nose is bleeding
he doesnt notice. He sees Jane looking down on him,
cerned She's been standing guard. It takes him a
get his bearings. the dream has disturbed him. Then
izes.

You ever sneak a look at what you're carrying?
Usually there's a code, like a lock.
When there isn't?
No. Goes with the territory, Safer for me. safer for the
-» How come you bnew those, uh

bs, call ‘em. I sort of hung with them. Before, How they

His anger takes her by surprise. She involuntarily stuff in your head, anyway?
   
   
 
    
  
   
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
 
 

Jat met 6
INT. DROME BAR. BACK ROOM. NIGHT.

a mcrawur
Joan, Implant. Wet-wired. { had to dump a lot of
memory.
Jane, Dumpt
Jonny, My childhood.
Jane absorbs this. Incredulous, A little shocked.

Janet: All of it? You can't remember any of it?

Jomery, Maybe some residual stuff. Every now and then,
something . ..1 can never hold on to it

Hooky, with mop and pail, is cleaning the floor a
after Raltis demise. but hes almost done. laietoc ones
an with the cyro-unit in om

Crosses 10 table and puts crpo~unit on it

Jant, That's seriously weird,

Jonny) Maybe I didn't lose anything | wanted to keep. |
the space for the job,

Jane: You got parents ‘n’ stuff?
That weird glitch again, inside Johnoy

Preacner For all tables are full of vomit and filthiness. so
that there is no place clean...

Shoulda seen it before.
Potacter, Isaiah.
Mine's Hooky.

Prracnre ( i
‘ins : snagging Hooky’s earring) Are you __. saved,

Jane, Sure... One. Haven't seen him in gears.
Johnny looks at her. Then he shrugs.
Jowwny Yeah... Anyway, | don't think about it.

Iant) So what do you think about? When you're alone?
Intense BLUE-WHITE LIGHT and a frosty putt of
The question hits a sensitive spot Johnny deflects it ait, Takes Hooky’s elbow and guides his pros.
into the unk. BEAT Withdrows it WHITE with frost,
Jone, Right now Tm thinking about where we can go the unit. Hooky stares mourntully at his trozen hook
the net
» The girl. She took Ralf's boy out of the back

Johnny speeds up his pace. No more talk.
   

 

§ puny MHLNOW
.
.
. oon
q wv
s F
.
.
.
.
.
.
: Ho
.
.
.
‘ Stet f
.
.
.
.
‘ Hoo» 1e wannabe. In here hustling for work
.
5 t at
.
. Hex
Hox
Hex

EXT. HIGH ABOVE STREET. NIGHT

Strovt p;
Tina are
CAMERA

icher exits the Drome Bar, Twx

 
JHU AEH 4?
COMPUTER SHOP. BACK ROOM.

rey ne Crmunar
Stump, Whoa, Street Preacher's out. J-Bone. you

  
  
 
   
 
  
   
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
   
   
 
  

INT. HEAVEN. NIGHT. jammed with boxes. A desk littered with papers, etc.

Johnny turns on desk lamp, sweeps everything else to the

/-Bone sits on Victorian chair, watching vid-screen, floor

optically combined with the Loteks' binoculars. TWO Yt

LOTERS are with him. ny Pind mea Sino-Logic 16,

J-Bont: Look at that son of a bitch. Doesn't have a ni
elt in his body. So jacked up he oughta squeal when he
Takes that collection plate money and has himself sh

Youns Lorex #1: He really a preacher, }-Bone?

I-Bont: Motherfucher’s got God and technology

Kills people for money to keep that steeple over his
Stump (VO, filter Want us to follow him?
J-Bont, Keep the fuck away from him. Man's just too

Jane scans the shelves, pulls down # carton, passes it to him.
He recites a list of the things he needs.

stealth module . .. one Burdine intelligent translator

DISSOLVE TO-
LATER.
The Sino-Logic 16 looks like a super-fast laptop, It’s connected,

via a modem line, to the shop’s phone, Johnny's connected alt
the various units. Turns on the computer,

Puts on goggles and gloves. Goggles leave his POV in DARK-
NESS

INT. COMPUTER SHOP. NIGHT,
Blackness

Jane (VO) Slick. Where'd you learn to do that?
j JOHNNY'S POV as the goggles activate, sucking him intoa RUSK

OE RRS through VIRTUAL REALITY Rush STOPS. This version
Of cyberspace is a 3-D grid. densely arrayed with various

WEDGE OF FAINT LIGHT as REAR DOOR opens. We
Dp — SHAPES Each shape represents data in a particular computer

make out Johnny. rwisting a last connection into wires

Se ae Ne ee Our VR experience is always from sounny’s POY. as his

Jane: Doing what? “hands,” simplified icons generated by the gloves, pick up and
(pulate SHAPES. The shapes have a peculiar characteris-
He follows. when he opens one, it unfolds INFINITELY. surrounding his

dn that particular universe of data, He’ doing it now, his
Jonny, Breaking and entering.
  
    
 
    
   
    
   
   
   
  
 
   
  
    
 
 
 

Jeet ERENT 6

His POV. His hands untangling a knot of data. Another VIR-
TUAL SCREEN leaps out of it, Hand icons moves to another

sane’s POW

Johnny is sitting there. adroitly manipulating NONI
OBJECTS with his gloved hands, as serious about it as jj
disarming a bomb. It looks goofy. ABSURD. ee
me $ INT. YAKUZA COMPUTER CENTRAL. NIGHT.
Tane (VO) What're you doing?

Jounay: Making a long-distance call... Beijing... A hotel _.

SAME POV

Of the hand and the box. Then the picture ZOOMS out and
turns into 4 grid. a HIGH-REZ MAP of Newark. An ARROW
pulsing at one spot.

A YAKUZA OPERATOR removes his goggles, speaks into his heaa
set.

sounnys POV.

As something ADMITS him, The BEUING HOTEL
glows for an instant, red neon. A VIRTUAL SCREEN
scrolling DATA. We follow Johnnys moves as he fishes

particular fragment of information.
#1; Got him. 5326 Sutton Plaza, Sub Level 3.
lounny (VO), Fax charges for Suite 2571... 15 January, 2021
Say 115 PM, 11:30. . EXT, NEWARK STREET. NIGHT,

Data in tighter RESOLUTION. It’s in CHINESE A Yakuza limo hangs a U-turn, speeds into the night .

Jounny (VO) On-line translation . INT. COMPUTER SHOP. NIGHT.

JOHNNY'S POV,
As another VIRTUAL SCREEN blips out of another box.

Chinese becomes ENGLISH.

Fonnny (VO) Shit.

Hold it, hold it ... cmon, baby, all the way . Back to
Newark... Copy shop ... Yeah. it's here! Part of it's here. in
the buffer of their fax modem . .

Janes POV
He “looks” up at her. eyes covered by the massive

FOUNNY, It's just an all-night copy shop. They were sending
to 4 copy shop. Here. In Newark.

 

She doesnt know what he’ talking about. His hands
move again, very fast
JUEUNY EEOC 1
Get off my board. man! You're too hot! You're a hit waiting
happen! Off!
(VO) You owe me, Strike
. Hey, [don't owe you that much!

(VO, bluffing): | can crash you from here. You know I can.
Wipe out your entire board...

Johnny. don't, man, that’s my livelihood . . .

I need to know what I'm holding, Strike. Why's the Yakuza
after it? Who's Dr. Allcome?

All | know is you got 4 head full of Pharmakom data and
the Yakuza want you dad’

Pharmakom?
Strike CRINGES as 4 change shoots across his held of data, the

Jounny Nothing. Nothing but 4 name. “Dr. Allcome.”
came through . .. Shit!
Closes his glowed fist, TIGHT.
JOUNNY'S POV.

As we REVERSE, dizzingly, through the computer
that have constituted cyberspace, boxes refolding and

   
   
 
 
  
 
   
   
   
     
  
  

Jant (VO); Let’s go. okay?
Jounny (VO): No, I'm going to try something else. Guy
Strite .

We move through cyberspace again. texture twisting and coarsening. He looks at this with horror.
founny (VO); He runs a board in this sector. Owes me a ; Shit! They put a virus on us! Get out of here, man! | never
Maybe he can find this doctor for me— heard of any Dr. Malcom, I never—

He stops in horror as suddenly part of his image disappears.
Then another part. Like someone working an eraser. Strike
vanishes with a digital SCREAM as the VIRUS eats his image.

INT. COMPUTER SHOP. NIGHT.

Jane’s restless, nervous as a cat but just as quiet. Slips through
the shop to the display window.

JANES POV.

ing moving out there.

takes a MAKEUP MIRROR from her bag and extends i

Were there, staixe’s ‘board is a smooth gray cube.
gees 10 work on it

lonnny (VO), Come on, man. jet me in...
EXT. STREET. OUTSIDE COMPUTER SHOP. NIGHT.

The Yakuza limo hisses around the corner,
computer shop . .

INT. COMPUTER SHOP. BACK ROOM. NIGHT.

A WINDOW opens in the side of the cube: a virtual
Strike is on it, digitally disguised.
JANE

flounny (genuinely baffled) Who the hell are pou?

VANE

tee SCriemrtar

    
  
   
  
 
  
  
  
 
 

Then she sees YAKUZA approaching. keeping close tg
shadows of the buildings. igures in LONG BLACK COATS:

Shit
Scrambles for the back room
INT. COMPUTER SHOP. BACK ROOM. NIGHT,
JOHNNYS POV on Strike’s cube as something starts to Me

out of it, something with a much higher bit rate. finer resq
tion, Anna, crazy delight in her eyes at seeing Johnny.

Anna’ face crumples with SORROW, she’ about to
when .

Jane rips the goggles off, taking Anna and cyberspace
them,

Move! Move!
Sound of BREAKING GLASS.
CUT TO.
THE YAKUZA.
Kicking in the tront door. Shinji behind his men
INT. COMPUTER SHOP. NIGHT.

Jane reaches into her bag, comes out with the grenade
chain

Johnny diverts to grab a brightly printed carton (INFOR
3000) from STOCK SHELF
    
  
    
   
   
   
  
  
    
  

HEY ERIN %

sjane sits down. Her bag is on the table. Johnny turns it over,
dumping the contents on the table.

* te Cary

Jane pulls the pin and tosses the grenade toward the
frantically swerves to grab Johnny and pull him out,

INT. SERVICE ALLEY. NIGHT. Hey!
He pulls a phone-card out of the pile.

Mind if I use this?

KA-BOOM!" Johnny and Jane CRASH out the service
and run, Johnny with carton under arm. The
ing building behind them.

Jane SIGHS, CLOSE on Johnny's hands as he slips her card into

Jounny: A beer opener?!
the Intobahn clip.

— rane Man owes me fifty thou and he’s scamming my phone-card.

EXT. COMPUTER SHOP. NIGHT. (grins); And it’s still our first date . .

Shinji gets up from where the explosion has tMrown him, Johnny gets up and heads for the pay vid-phone in the back.
himself off. His men lie dead or wounded, MOANING.
pays them no mind, his eyes burning with
fury.

INT, UNDERGROUND MALL AREA. NIGHT.

 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 

INT. UNDERGROUND MALL. COFFEE SHOP. VID-PHONE.
NIGHT.

Johnny slots clipped card in phone. Gets DIAL TONE.

Number for Pharmakom Industries. Their branch here in

Seedy, ill-lit, nearly deserted. At counter, Jane picks Newark:

coffees in paper cups and carries them over to Johnny:
Johnny taking the INFOBAHN 3000 from carton; it has A number appears on the screen. He dials ON INFOBAHN.

ical KEYPAD, a small SCREEN, but is unlike vid-phones PHARMAKOM logo appears over gorgeous sunset clouds.
seen. A short CURLY CORD ends in a CLIP for

   
 
  
    
 

MAIL (VO) You have reached the offices of Pharmakom
‘ated, a subsidiary of Pharmakombinat. If you know
number of the section—

Johnny’s sorting through a thick deck of credit cards. Head of security . .

Jane; Great. Now I'm a waitress,

         
 

Jounny, | can’ use any of these. The Yakuza’s watching
waiting for the first transaction .

he works Infobahn keypad like an ace. ON PAYPHONE
45 pretty logo is replaced by PHARMAKOM INTER
   
  
   
   
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  

% tat SCOP JY NHI ”

NATIONAL PHONEBOOK. As Johnny HACKS and we
IN on the NUMBER. We hear it RING. Pharmakom
MAN appears on screen. Peers narrowly at Johnny

fight. but Johnny has convinced himselt

These guys will negotiste. They're corporate
So's the Yolura!
Listen, if pou don't come, fine. It's a business meeting is

not your bind of scene. If it works out, Ii get you the money |
owe you. If It doesnt —

Secumry This number is unlisted. It's a federal offense—
Jounny, Don’ like surprises?
Sreurrm No, Not at all,

Jounny, [have $20 gigabytes of Pharmakom data. It it doesn't, you're dead!

This gets Security’s FULL attention. He glances
making eye contact OS. shoulder movement suggests |

using keyboard OS.

He rounds on her.

fm gonna be dead anyway. I don’ get this shit owt of my

bead”

Joey Don't bother, Ill be out of here in twenty seconds.
z Stung. she stops. He walks on. She tabes a step. Something's

BEAT atfected her coordination.

Secumm What do you want?

Jounny Your data, out of my head. I've got one image, you
the other two...

» H-hep! Listen! This guy Spider? Used to be a doctor? H-he
could f-fx you, maybe, pour head .. .

Johnny looks back, sees her condition
BEAT.
Hey. What's with pou?

Secuntty (lying): That can be arranged TH. aaaaah .... bebe alll e-r-r—

Jornory, Lets meet.

scocusats Ghusal Johnny grate her as she starts to sink to the ground. In this

he’ instinctively assumed responsibility —but with it,
Panics, looking around as if hell be able to hand her to
else: here, pou tabe care of her.

Y stare briefly, walk on as if they havent seer

INT. UNDERGROUND MALL, NIGHT.
Johnny walking fast, trying fo outdistance her.

Jane You're crazy! They'll chop your head off! ! You're sick, You strung out or what?
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
  
 
 

ud Te SCARY JMET ERNIE ”

Shabes her head. shudders, trying to pull herself LANDFILL. IN FRONT OF SPIDER'S GARAGE.
sheer force of will. Johnny looks up. horrified as he: _ NIGHT.

Actazy facade of graffitied sheet metal. Johnny halt drags. halt
carries Jane out of a cab. She can barely walk, her left leg
mahing weird robotic movements,

Johnny props Jane against the wall beside a crudely installed
intercom/videocam unit; presses the button, waits impa-
tently.

(VO), If you aren't expected you aren't invited. So fuck off.
obay?

(VO): Janey?

) Get down here, man! She's sich!

He pushes Jane up to the intercom/videocam.
Whey... Spider, babe ...1,..

Johnny tries to hold her upright as she starts to convulse. He

can’. She's thrashing in a puddle. Blood at the corner of her
Mouth,

Door CRASHES open: Spider rushes out
Get your wallet in her mouth!

Johnny whips out wallet; it flips open, spraying credit cards.
He wedges it between her teeth. Spider picks her up in fire-
man’s carry, while Johnny scrambles to pick up his cards.

ducks in after Spider just before the door slams shut.

Jounny, You got NAS!
Jant: No!!!

Her eyes roll up, Johnny has to litt her in his arms,
Jounny, ve got a meer!
She manages to subdue it, long enough to speak, but .

lane: Ggo...G-g
Jounwy [can't deal with this now, understand?

He carries her to a nearby doorway and puts her down.

Jonny) Whatever it is, you're sidelined, right? | gotta
meeting—

Het eyes roll up.
Jomo Hey! Can you hear me?
She snaps back into focus.

Jane; Spider, He's g-got d-drugs . . . He's got a p-place .. -
far from here. .

 

Johnny looks down at her. At his watch, At her. He’ at
of his tether, at war with himself and furious he has
this position
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
   
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  

8 it SCUGNPLAT

mechanics gear—like a cross between an abortion
@ transmission shop.

Johnny helps Spider carry Jane to the surgical table.
moving fast, Jane’s condition has his total attention; its
He slips a band of electrodes down over her
consults 4 monitor.

Seu AENENIC 8
He's so intense we immediately doubt it

So what does cause it?
Cause it? The world causes it.

He starts grabbing things: computer screens, disk drives. light

Jounny Look, | gotta ruan— bulbs, a vid-phone. , .

Spier: Shut up. Give me the muscle relaxant The red This causes Wt... this causes it... this causes it... (grabs
Johnny) You cause it... | cause it. . Information overload.
All the electronics around you, poisoning the airwaves. Tech-
nological fucking civilization! But we still have all this shit,
"cause we cant live without it Now, let me do my work.

and instruments, passes it to Spider. Spider tugs at Janes
exposing skin; presses muzzle of injector against it, hres.

SIGHS, stretches, her muscles unkinking He picks up a sharp, ugly instrument. Johnny turns away.
jooks around the room. OS, nasty machine noises; Johnny
glances in that direction, winces. Then he spots Spiders com-
puter setup; a futuristic PC attached to fancy peripherals,
covering a twenty-foot table. He’ drawn to it like a moth to a
flame. Picks up the telephone handset, glances to make sure
Spider is busy. punches in a number. We hear it RING.

Jonnny: It's NAS, right?

Spine Yeah, the black shakes. Like hall the people
around this town . . .

He looks at Johnny, his eres narrowing with
ousy.

Sper Who are you? New boyfriend?

Johnny doesnt answer. Spider lags out probes and the screen saver comes back on and
immediately starts tc
ments. Suddenly he stops. MORPH into the image of Anna. Johnny pulls back, spooked

 

Spon, You just understand one thing, okay?
Jounny: What's that?

Spier: It wasn't my work got her this way, My é
Besides. you don't get this shit from amp jobs. I'm losing it...
mye Yes! We have both lost so much—
  
  
  
     
   
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
   
  
  
   
    
  
  
 
  
 
  

Jounny: I'm seeing things. Right? Seeing things .. .

Anna: Yes, Johnny! Seeing things! But you must remember
all felt! How each thing smelled and tasted! You used to)
put your tongue against the iron railing, and look out
the park. You told me it made a taste in your mouth like
Let me take you home, Johnay—

SUEY ALR 8

Spider moves a little closer, sizing Johnny up.

. Dont see that in Newark much. Just Johnny. Kinda up
scale for us. you know? ,

wy Got mine in Singapore,

yp, What's the deal, Just Johnny?

Johnny's reaction. Where does she get this from? I got this problem. Up here. Maybe you can help me.

Sper (OS, angry); What do you think you're doing!? IO

INT. SPIDERS GARAGE. NIGHT.

saver. Johnny notices the handset BEEPING. Replaces it. Johnny in dentist’s chair. Spider SCANNING HIS HEAD. Stucty-
ing results on a monitor.
Jonni: Just—just looking. ON THE MONITOR.

Spinex; Don't touch anything Who the fuck are you?
Jomo: Johnny.

Spier: Johnny who?

Jonny: Just Johnny .. .

The inside of Johnny's head. The implant itself is small. But
throughout his brain, dark streaks, almost like oil, are blurring
the neural pathways. Spider WHISTLES.

» Man, they did some serious shoehorning to get that in

eae aE Ne IR SET RN Re

* You don't know the half of it. Must be hurting like hell,

t Think I need you to tell me that? | got three hundred and
_ twenty gigs in there.

FLASH FRAME. He winces as his head gives him
Spider looks at him, curious. Johnny scans the lab
them.

Jomon Looks like a full-service shop... How are you
implants? ve see Spider react to the number. He is very interested now;

* being very careful.

Spider sizes him up.

What ts it. exactly? What bind of stuff?

Joan Silicon implants. Neural overlays. Memory
tion.
Joey HENEW

 

  

EXT. SPIDER'S GARAGE. NIGHT.

Spite:

Holcomt
  
 
   
    
  
   
    
    
  
 
   
   

% Ta CreamLAY

Jadu MOEN a
. SPIDER'S GARAGE, NIGHT.

 

BEAT. Spider shige. step outand see an ancient STEP-UP VAN retrofitted with
huge. blimplike gasbag on top. A jumble’of gas lines pro-
Spiper: Maybe .. rude from the gasbag and run around to the exhaust. A Spider
jogo on its side. Johnny stares.
Johnny jumps out of the chair.

Methane. Beats hell out of waiting on Esso,

i

Jounny, Where is he?
EXT. SPIDER’S GARAGE, NIGHT.

Sraper: | said “maybe.” Why do you want to see him?

Jane: C'mon. Spider! Street Preacher circling the building, starting 10 RUN as he

hears NOISY IGNITION and BACKFIRING of van.

He turns to Jane, oozing concern. Puts a

around her. Like a father, but also a bit like a lover, INT, SPIDER'S VAN, NIGHT.

All in. Spider steps on the gas. Slowly, ..

As the van turns around the building. Street Preacher appears.
rushing straight toward them, like a locomotive.

Sptoex, Don't worry. Il make sure Just Johnny gets to see
needs to see. But you. you need bed rest, Janey,
Big time.

Something in her wants to buy this: he’ her Fuck,
mentor, they've slept together. she’s barely
her attack... He FLOORS IT. heading straight for Street Preacher, who
DIVES. AIMING for the windshield, STRIKES. shattering it. and

ROLLS OFF. vanishing.

Tires SCREAM as Spider hangs an insanely tight turn and they
up street. away from gurage. Johnny looks at Spider.

Jane: But... He's my client,
Spree: Tm tellin’ you. you gotta sleep!
Jonny: Just tell me where to go!

b Who the fuck was thar?!
BEAT. Spider glances at Jane. Het approval of him ~

s to around crack-webbed t
Spiper: I'll drive you. re ae see impac!

He precedes them to the back door You dont want to bnow.
   
  
  
     
  
  
    
  
 
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
   

38 Te SCREINPLAT
EXT. PAVEMENT BESIDE SPIDER’S GARAGE.

JeeHnY mucnanie 8?
SIDE OF UNION STATION. NIGHT,

Street Preacher on hands and knees. Shabes himself,
to his feet, bloody but unbowed.

; * van swerves around a corner and pulls into a loading
bay of the disused Art Deco station

EXT. STREETS, NIGHT. INT. UNION STATION. NIGHT.

Dark. Light angles in from elsewhere in the building as Spider

Spider's van races through the night opens # door, leading Johnny and Jane up the stairs

INT. TAKAHASHI'S OFFICE. NIGHT. INT. STATION HALL. NIGHT.

Tabahashi is at his desk. the image of Anna in front
matched with a more formal portrait. His secretary
another monitor.

They emerge into a huge hall filed with NAS parents in
| advanced stages of the disease. OwpERUES put bodies on
stretchers, Nurses tend to their patients, everything is make-
shift

Secretary: Anna Kalmann. Founder. Former CEO of the
tional Pharmakombinat Industrie, Zurich. Born. |
Died, 5 September 2015.

There are far too many patients, lar too few personnel,

Johnny and Jane stare in horror; Spider doesnt even seem to
notice. He gestures to them and they follow him as he finds a
path through the room. He takes a white coat from a rack. slips
Hon as he goes.

TAKAHASHL = Died? Six years ago?

Secretary She was imprinted to Pharmakom’s neural-net

lation in Zurich prior to onset of morbidity. A Nurse. who seems to be an NAS patient herself, looks up.

Spider, thank God you're here

Spider goes over to her and helps check out her patient. They

A Lorex scrawl erases Anna’ portrait; intense burst
cut off as the secretary switches off the screen. But

has missed this, turning away. Move on toward a tentlibe structure that partitions a

of the hall. The nurse smiles at Johnny as he passes.

Taxanasit: A ghost... the way. Spider stops at various patients, looks at them.
JOHNNY HECINEIC a

  
   
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
  

checks charts, etc., making sure Johnny gets a good look at the
suttering that goes on here

younn® Where's Dr. Allcome?

2, “Dr. Allcome” is who we page in hospitals if we got a major
pre »blem and we don't want to spook the civilians.

jae Huh?

Spore: “Dr. Allcome to Ward Seven.” And we all drop everything
and haul ass to wherever. Usually it means we got a crazy.
somebody violent . . . It means we need all the help we can get

Joumny. But I saw it on a fax buffer—

They have reached the tentlike partition and Spider precedes
Johnny and Jane inside.

INT. TENT/OPERATING ROOM. NIGHT.

Jury-rigged by someone who is endlessly inventive. Some
genuine medical equipment is mixed freely with homemade
contraptions and gadgets. Spider, Johnny and Jane enter, Spi
der directs Johnny to an operating table.

 

 

Shier: That fax was supposed to be for us

BEAT. a:

 

Johnny digests this, Still suspicious

 

Who's “us?

Seve, The NAS underground. People who keep this place going
People like me. Get on the table here

Why?

Don't be a bigger asshole than you have to, okay? Lie
hy x JET PUSNES & « v x
Now let's take a better look at that shit
He throws a series of switches, a WHIRRING sound. f
and numbers display on a console. Spider nods, asi
suspicions have been confirmed. j
tee No acce ode?
HN Except for one image. Out of three
Me , his pocket. but Spider shabes his head.
w help. What did they use, random images?
From the TV
spider nods. Hes not hopetul
Spine: Obay, I've got some decryption progeams here, Well
them, see If we get anything

 

Jane’ «

 

      
  
    

     

 

1 few WHIRRI sonuerne

hor you should re en
out fer?

1
Q
yes return to Johnny. Concern. Spider novices ia
ses at him. We can see it bothers him, The Wil
picker CURSES softly.

 
  
 
   
 
   
 
    
 
 
  
 
   
    
   
 
 
  
    
    
   
 
 
   
  
 

“4 Te SCREW Jeet AEA %
Jounny No dice? Like a rea! cure?
They could have you straightened out in three weeks
Spider pushes away the CAT-scan gear. Aca ane kate hike
Pe ane ton: Johnay has hit upon an inconsistency in Spider's story.
Jounny, How?

Everybody's trying to cut off my tucking head—

m So they can take it back to Saigon and run it under «
quantum interference detector. But then they'd have the cure
and we wouldn't. You leave that thing in your head, nobody
can save you. Plus the cure is lost, Forever. Let me take it out, |
can save the cure. Even if we had the code, the seepage is sc
bad. it would probably come out as garbage

What's It supposed to matter to me? If I'm dead. You
follow me?

The cure can save millions of lives, You're gonna die
anyway if we don't get it out. You can make a difference.

Spiper, With a general anesthetic, a cranial drill, and
ceps,

BEAT.

Jounny, You're jobing. right?
Sper: No joke
Jounny. And | could die, too, right? °

Spiper: It's going to kill you anyway, when it ruptures. 1
you'll probably survive. You'd lose some fine-motor
might not be able to remember anything for more
three minutes, but—

Johnny is not sure what to believe.
Jounny: Puck that.

All | know is that whatever's in my head is worth a lot of
money. Why should I trust you? (turns to Jane) You're sup-
Posed to be my bodyguard here.

Spider comes closer to Johnny.

Sper: Let me tell you something. Let's start with what
inside there. Just so you know what it's worth, okay?

worth to the world. (BEAT) You're carrying the cure Jone stands, looking back and forth from one to the other.

What the hell are the alternatives here, anyway?

A rolling stretcher CRASHES through the tent flap, flies across
room and SMASHES into the wall. The nurse’s body falls
the stretcher: eyes dead, her neck broken,

Preacher enters, hands spread as if about to launch inte
. his face aglow with the possibilities of what he’s jus:

Johnny studies him carefully; is this bultshit? Cant

Jounny. You're telling me | got—

Spiner; Pharmakom’s complete R&D on their cure for
tenuation Syndrome, plus the records of the
prove it works. And it works like a motherfucker.
   
   
    
   
  
  
    
   
   
   
   
   
  
     
  
  
  

% Tat SCmuPLAY JOY ENOL %

INT. TENT/OPERATING ROOM. NIGHT.
_ Street Preacher holds Spider against the wall

Peeacntr: Who is Jones?
» Deals hot wetware in Cleveland

Steret Preacite®, Praise be unto the Lord. That cure is
Behold your Savior!

Spider makes an instant decision
Sptper: Run for it!

He hurls himself at Street Preacher, who plucks him
air and tosses him aside, Advances on Johnny.

Johnny. next to the operat table, 4
healt eae oauier pheanaat amt ae Reaching for Spider, who makes a very good try at kicking
with TWO quick THROWING SPIKES in a row. Street Street Preacher in the balls and diving past him, but it doesn
plucks one out of the air, but the other plants work. Caught in those big hands, Spiders flung back againsi
shoulder. Street Preacher GRUNTS, then plucks the wall. Street Preacher’ eyes fall on the surgical tools. He
from his shoulder. Pissed off at his own sloppiness. stares reverentiy. Then turns his attention back to Spider.

Spider tackles Street Preacher around the legs.
down.

T Pract: You can't lie to me, sinner, Jesus is my co-

pilot.

Preacner: Tell me where they are

Street Preacher drives a scalpel through the open palm ot
Spider’ left hand, through the plywood. pinning him there.

INT. MAINTENANCE TUNNEL. NIGHT.

Sprinter: Run!! Get to Jones! Maybe he can do It!

Jane and Johnny stand fora brief moment, unwilling to
Spider’ sacrifice.
dohnny and Jane hurry along: Jane beeps looking back. A
SCREAM echoes eerily Johnny and Jane stop, spooked.
Snowing Spider is gone Johnny touches Jane on the shoulder
it a tender, protective gesture. They continue

Sewer: Jones. Janey"! Get him to Jonest!

Street Preacher lifts Spider and HURLS him against
Spider on the floor. Not moving.

Johnny grabs Jane, pulls her away. They finally run
looking back over her shoulder to Spider. Street
up, looks atter them, is about to follow when a i
Spider catches his eye. He approaches Spider, hoists:

Spider's van races through the night.
SPIDER'S VAN, NIGHT.

SCREEN of funky dashboard VID-PHONE as PHAR-

INT. UNION STATION. NIGHT.

Johnny and Jane RUN into a tunnel
8 te SCRENrUY JHHNAT UENONIC "
adjusts the dash-phone’s camera so Security can only.
not Jane next to him. We notice the Infobahn sooo
into the dash-phone.

  
 
   
   
    
    
     
  
  
  
  
    
  
    
   
    
  
 

Listen to me, Takahashi, before it's too late .

Tabahashis eyes bug with a mixture of rage and occuii
Rashomon terror. Deep down, he believes in ghosts.
Your daughter is gone and you feel that as a great wrong.
But | offer you the chance to right 4 greater wrong—

sui (exaggerated calm); No. This is not happening.

lounny: | couldn't make the meet, but I'm still up for it.
Security, Certainly.

fonnny: This time the place is Heaven. Under the bridge in
5... Bring the rest of the code.

Security: Ill be there.

He reaches to shut off the monitor, but something in her look
stops him.

Ive learned so many things since my death, Takahashi. !
fled into the net. and I saw everything. | saw that they had—

Johnny breaks the connection. Jane looks at him.

lane: Great. Now if he doesnt kill you. J-Bone will , CLICK. He shuts off the monitor. Stares at the blank screen,

breathing deeply.

Johnny shrugs. Speeds on.
ey on EXT, RATLANDS. NIGHT.

INT. TAKAHASHI'S OFFICE. NIGHT, The rubble-strewn plain, the BRIDGE in BACKGROUND.

Johnny and Jane pull up below bridge in Spider's van.
EXT. HEAVEN, LOOKOUT. NIGHT.

VARIOUS ANGLES establishing Heaven. Its bulging patch-
Work flank sugyests the world’s largest tree house. built by
several generations of hardcore Wild Boys.

We MOVE IN—~as if approaching a spaceship made of gar-
bage. Here’s the VW-BOMBER. a device designed to hold and
drop three VOLKSWAGEN BUGS. The VWs are STACKED like
: through their shattered windows, we see hundreds ot
Jars and jugs of an amber fluid—~GASOLINE.

TILT DOWN this mad contraption to a small PLATFORM,
STICK, a young Lotek. and his supoy are on sentry duty.
the shit, apparently stoned.

ON A MONITOR on Takahashis desk. On it. the
security man slumps, eyes blank, mouth open, as if
dead.

PULL BACK to Takahashi with his hand in a VIDEO
GLOVE connected to the monitor. He wiggles his
the monitor, the security man’ eyes and tongue
squirm grotesquely.

TAKAHASHI: ~=He wants the cade .

Making the puppet image speak in SYNC. There ts
man, Takahashi removes his hand from the

video puppet on the screen doesnt go limp. lt
SMILES at him, MORPHS into Anna.
int ae

    

| { her, i wan \ w rt te with
yer and screw the physical ti | about feelir
ng
What
EXT. BELOW BRIDGE. NIGHT
Johnny sounds vans HORN, leaning in through the window

 

   

 

No sign of life from above. } tops, He
y wr
ft if that ally tr t
you id save ¢
t know! Wh t der j
102 Tm SCrtenruay

Gets his full attention. He’ picked up a battered
and a stick.

Jounny, Memory augments?
Jane, I'm not sure. Anyway. he's . . . (shrugs, ata loss) You’
BEAT. Johnny senses she’s holding something back.

glances up to Heaven and starts banging the stick on
can lid, a loud RACKET.

JOHNNY MHENANIC 103
Oh shit...!

  
   
  
    
    
    
    
  
 
   
    
  
  
  

Multistage action of BOMBER mechanism as bottom-most
VW is released, it shoots down RAMP: still attached by RIP-
CORD to INCENDIARY FUSE. Cord goes taut: fuse IGNITES.

EXT. BELOW BRIDGE, NIGHT.
Jane’ oblivious as the falling VW catches fire. Plummeting
straight for her.

Johnny looks up, sees it, DIVES over, TACKLES her and
ROLLS.

VW impacts van. FIREBALL of combined methane and gas-
oline.

Jane on her back in the mud, staring up at Johnny.

EXT. HEAVEN. PLATFORM. NIGHT.

Stick cranes out over black void, listening.
Snick: Somebody crazy. down there .. . Getting on my
Buoy) Ratland’s fulla crazies, Stick. Ignore, man.
Sncx: Hey, look. Its Spider's van . .. Let's drop o bug on

der, man...
Stick’ only kidding, to bug Buddy.

Buppy Hey, don't even say that! J-Bone'll shit, he hears
know how jumpy he's been—

Wha—?

For the briefest moment it seems as if he might biss her. but his
frustration and anger boil over. He gets up.

& What the tuck is going on!? (shouts 10 Heaven) What the
Stick is only baiting Buddy, now he’s climbing up to the fuck is going on!?

that releases the VWs.
He turns to Jane. ranting now.
Buppy, Hey! Shit. man—

Stick GRINS; enjoying putting Buddy uptight.
Sick: Hey nothin’. It's what they're for...
Stick with his hand on the lever, just jacking Buddy

his FOOT SLIPS; look of horror as he’s forced to grab
to keep from falling. SWINGS DOWN on lever.

§ You know, all my life I've been careful to stay in my own
comer, looking out for number one. no complications, now
nly I'm responsible for the entire fucking world and

and his mother is trying to bill me if my head
blow up first...

45 about to lose it. too, then claims the moral high ground
                                           

‘peap say aNVE
apids {ura Buying Sujasa) aNOg-{
—sn was saps jauoges ‘SAU 99S O] Bae aM, ANVE

AINT-O4aD & pur
ISINVAVI OYs e saqe) ay] ‘aaray or Auredasd sy

“LHOIN “ADIddO S.AHSVHVMVL “IN

—aray Uy TY 19H qomaued ayi jo do} uo spuey auog-f sites
spury 319e2 241 umop Apgoinb JaTTS 2uog-T
yoo) y10g Say] INL) SAYNS I! O} payreue FIGVO
wwyy Supinys Squwou sivedust JOVI TVLIW AAVTH pot |

th , e
wed “af 4 2 il ae ep EON

dur pun uve Soy) pray urqony dus sy pues =~ ‘ANNHOT

SOOTY) #40 acueyua
DINO) 'SIPUIEIUOD PI}I9UUOD S}2800] JO S9{52S B OWUI PUK AYm
NIVA\ GIONTASNS # $0190 Suuyor woddns auey puv auog-¢

‘ia gins daquow ai SOUM, JO SANWANW (212 “SmOgssosD
YIM PAULL Sxa1O7 BY) AYUMUUIOD PayjUO} & S[109}> st Uaseapy
ul BUNS Sf JIOMAUBL] IYI SP YPM SNZLOT JO GMOUD
wayy Je Supe auer Bunues yns Suuyos
“LHOIN “FOGG MAOTAG “LXA
qaep aut o1uy sasts ates aia

pe ‘aoe Jey ‘SOUIYA HONIM W “ut Auuyor jneYy sdjay auEg- jauog-f ‘urs szapids (umop Aunujod) saang

jow diay 3 Jp} NOS waUO YY ANOY-[
. hos
oy Aq paresne 'sdo} sour? 1980 Suyaquies ‘Buy
OS]8 240 SNZIOT ATHLO “uta puyyaq ssvadde auog-¢

‘SANNOS T78t
OITIZLNINN 224 @ SJuo saanposd ing Buypauuos Svs o1 ats
fuuyor ‘aun uy isnt wry sqesd aun ing ‘apis ay 4aa0 sajddot
soe pur 1ydudn ays sassiu apy apyong saauy sty se uoddns
1oj 1y8udn ue tof gerd Oo} sey pue sazui@ ay aSe> at) OIL}
yasunny yjnd 0} satn ay se isnf ing ‘Suuyor ua ‘uo sad 2uvf

—luaproce ue sexy, HDUS

pops ue ae nos ‘uyw (sO) aAcang
“uo quid (Z¥9g)** NOK wuss saps f°

‘gues oO} 4oeq syoos uay Aysnopoidsns Auuyor sade aug!

jasey “And sau0f
si 01 198 eno’ ayy {ABqO ‘dn sn ig) doqjzeg jyey) UI] ION

: alay woy
4uop am ing Bupues yns Aueayo sy Auuyor ate
Supuiey Sq pareunungyy ‘2uer pure Suuyor uo Ad
“LHOIN "(WAOdLV 1d ‘NdAVAH ‘XA
“MoWwWSsuUP ION Od INOge ISN] OU su agdDW “ANV[
AOE Ou

‘ues atp apisut seen rapids durquny Seay 2u0gt
701 TE Ee
Jenuat acraaic

  
  
   

It's waiting, sir

ippceTan

      
 

 

re “ an On
e secretary s
mabe sure he’s really gone. She presses a buttor

phone. Shinjis face appears on the screen.

Seen -
Secs He's on his way

  

demented faith

Steet Poeacues, You can run. sinners, but pou cant hide

 

 

 

.

. H t

. « the prior

.

.

‘ INT. VILLA. STUDY. DAY.

.

. c

@ t
The same HOME MOVIE QUALITY and ominous lighting. The
same woman behind the desk, her face invisible

s nage bleache

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

€ the

eeeeeenee
    
    
   
     
  

lar barely
Jane can barely ¢

 

t hed ox

again than anything else. but then she realizes hx

 

ns for him are and her smile disappears

Johnny catches her expression

Jonnny: = I'm all right

She turns away and he realizes he misinterpreted]

owuwr

thoughts. He sits up, still somewhat
Th

 

zy. reaches for}
biss and all the danger and bottled-up fear of the

  

ns into passion

(OS) Hey. we got a special room for that

They let go of each other. see J-Bone grinning at them,
grin fades

}-Bont; Time to meet Jones

EXT. RATLANDS. NIGHT.

    

Three Yabuza limos arrive. park with smoking shell of 33
» BACKGROUND. Shinji’s assautr Team emerges Oy
Shinji. Team unloads black nylon carryalls from trunks

Shinji scanning Heaven with binoculars

HeAvYWHIaNT opens a bag and lifts out a compact
AIRCRAFT MISSILE LAUNCHER. Hands this to his P
FEMALE yAKUZA, who hefts it admiringly.

Pemate Yakuza. Come to Momma
Summ Only if we require a diversion

I-Bont: Spider's people, they give us information. we out
Joma, Out it?
J-Bont: Wide-band. Global. Off the commsats Jones

 
   
   
  
   
  
     
   
    
   
  
 
 
    
   
   
  
  
 
 
  

She sights it, in love. Shinji lowers binoculars. turns. EXT. HEAVEN. BELOW BRIDGE. NIGHT.

Shinji clips LINE-CLIMBER to end of line. Clips line-climber to
his harness. FIVE harnessed wencnmen also fire up lines.
INT. HEAVEN. THROUGH CONTAINERS. NIGHT,

J-Bone quickly leading Johnny and Jane through They teach you that in ning
Living quarters, a workshop, a schoolreom made
school bus, even a hydroponic vegetable garden. Ona
WAY between two containers, Johnny accidentally
into a TOOL KIT with his foot, sees it PALL out of sight
river.

Shinji pauses, looks at his henchmen,
Takahashi is mine.

Shinji touches a button on the line-climber and rises smoothly
out of sight. His henchmen follow.

INT. HEAVEN. NODE. NIGHT.
hk
—— Jane’s hand on glass of tank; A DOLPHIN’ nose nudges the
INT. HEAVEN, NIGHT. glass in greeting from inside.
Through doorway into Lotek command central. » Jones.
by a tree of dozens of monitors in the center. A LOTEK
high in the air on an old converted electric chair on an.
able base, the BOOM-CHAIR. checking a monitor.
monitor, central to a ragged MASS OF EQUIPMENT. isa
its water clear enough to show a CREATURE inside.
dies of CABLES slung down into the water; SCANNER
to PARABOLIC SCANNERS marked “US. NAVY.”

high and wide apart.

Johnny stands and stares at the surreal spectacle.

Johnny steps forward, puzzled. The dolphin, Jones, surfaces in
4 GOUT of water. Split second glimpse of Navy ARMOR.

Ws a... fish!?
Mammal

The dolphin surfaces again and now stays up. The scanners
SWIVEL, lock on Johnny. Johnny jumps as a scanning beam oi

EXT, HEAVEN, STRUCTURAL DETAIL, NIGHT.

CU as PITON, trailing a fine line, embeds itself in
line is pulled taut.

gear around the eye swivels; SCANNERS swivel in
Then scanners emit a shrill series of CLICK-
JOE ENGI "3

oO 1A fi ak . ti
MM
H
REMO' NEEDLE proache
i 4 junkie The Navy addicted ‘em all to this shit

they'd do the work. We give it to him now, it makes hin

think he’s swimming

       

hi {¥PO in INJECTION VE

.

.

a “ ers be

.

. hing ere “ .
. tw t

.

‘ he t

.

wnd Jane exchange a look

EXT. HEAVEN, GIRDERS BELOW BRIDGE, NIGHT.

Pitch dark. Street Preachers steam-engine BREATH as he

 

sosition. We see

1 the Hoor with

 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
   
 
  
   
  
  
   
 
   
  
  
  
  
   
 
  
   

™ Tit SCHRENPLAT JOONNY NNEUAIC 6
Jomo Wait a minute .. .

J-Bont: No time, friend. You're the man in a hurry.

INT. HEAVEN. NODE. NIGHT.

ON A WIDE-SCREEN MONITOR A Lorex has fed in the code
image. which fills one-third of the screen The other two-thirds
are filled with FLICKERING VIDEO SNOW Johnny anxious to
sear

J-Bone urges him toward chair; Johnny resists.

Jounwy, Have you done this before? Has he? How
this?
wy Lets doit..

enn ne A SARS ER EM 1) Not yet. First you and | make deal
J-Bonr (soothingly): Just try to keep your head still,
gotta triangulate the infrasound on the implant, If
he’s liable to microwave your frontal lobe . .
Jounny (stepping back) Forget it.

L-Boxe: This way at least you got a chance. . . But. hey,
the choice is pours.

Johnny and Jane exchange looks: Johnny takes a
and goes to the chair, Jane smiles, pleased at his

Loteks lower helmet onto his head. Looks like he’s
electrocution.

Johnny looks warily over to J-Bone. Now what?

L bnow what's in your head. If Jones gets it out... We
broadcast it. Put it out, right across the planet. We give it away.

Johnag considers. Begins to GRIN.

Listen, if you can get it out
it; Yeah?
Knock yourself out.

J-Bone frowns. Jane grins. Spirit of complicity. J-Bone turns to

J-Bont: Give me what you've got of the download code. the techies.

Johnny produces crumpled tax. Hands it to J-Bone:

NESE CARTOON HERO. Sits in the chair. Get the broadcast antennae up. Everybody clear of the

infrasound area!
EXT. HEAVEN. RAMPARTS. NIGHT.

Buddy on guard duty. Shinji, like a shadow, ts on him.
throat and tosses him over the side. His team

EXT. HEAVEN. BELOW BRIDGE. NIGHT,

Buddy’ body lands with a PLOP near
male Yakuza, They glance over. Heavyweight
ward the corpse.

The Loteks scurry. Distant MECHANICAL SOUND.

Jane stays with Johnny at the chair, but J-Bone grabs her anc
Pulls her clear of the orange-painted area

|, HEAVEN. BRIDGE TOWER. NIGHT.

Massive broadcast antennae are propelled mechanically
the top of the tower.
JHUNNY EMBNIC w

    
   
   
 
  
   
   
 
  
  
   
  
    
   
 
    
   
 
   
   

"6 Te SCoaanPLay

A Yakuza helicopter drops into frame like a black dj
looking for a place to put down its cargo. .

horseshit ‘cause it was a accident. man, a shit fucking
accident—

- Curt off with a GASP as a crossbow bolt from one of Shinji’
ream finds his heart. Shinji rushes forward trying to catch him,
too late. Stick falls forward across the LEVER. activating

bomber.
THE SECOND VW is launched into space. WHOMP of igniting
gasoline,

EXT. HEAVEN. BELOW BRIDGE, NIGHT.

INT. HELICOPTER. NIGHT.

Takahashi grimly looks to the pitor, points down.
nods.

INT. HEAVEN, NODE, NIGHT.

Johnny takes a deep breath. The scanners SWIVEL,
him... He closes his eyes, gathers himself.
Heavyweight by Buddy’ body. scavenging. Sudden down-
Jounny: Now. rushing FLARE of burning VW.
The scanners emit a BURST of DOLPHIN-SPEAK that SP. feavyweicit: Wha?
UP to become the INFRASOUND EFFECT. Johnny goes
denly rigid as the scan takes effect.

Jones starts ta tremble in the water. Jane looks on,
ON ONE OF THE SCREENS, THE ‘DOLPHIN MONITOR

Dozens of TENDRILS, very lively and organic. attem
surround and penetrate an angular representation of Joh
implant. They fail repeatedly, thrown off by PULSES off
LIGHT.

UNFRASOUND EFFECT remains on in node until
page 120.)

VW impacts in ballooning FIREBALL, Heavyweight vanishing.
The explosion partially catches Female Yakuza, hurling her
into the mud, clothes and hair on fire.

She flails through mud, dragging the missile-launcher.

YakuzA: Yeah? Yeah? You think so, motherfuckers? Well,
bite on this.

Raises the launcher to her shoulder, aiming almost straight up,
and FIRES.

EXT. HEAVEN, PLATFORM. NIGHT, INT. HEAVEN. NODE. NIGHT.

Shudders with force of the explosion. The infrasound

By the VW-bomber. Stick on duty. looking unhappy. ~ “
AVERS. Johnny and Jones are oblivious to the commotion.

Snick (to the night, softly but bitterly): Big mothert

almighty strategist motherfucker. Week's extra hour Stations! You all know the drill!
"a

NE Somebody's ideo of pay-back time

  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
   

Tee VCONPLAY
Seen Regeeeseagegeesesese

Loteks scramble to take up battle stations

What's happening?

ON AN UNWATCHED SURVEILLANCE MONITOR.

Brief furry of violence as Shinji and his team dispatch
Loteks

INT. HEAVEN. UNDER ROADWAY. NIGHT.

Still ob

 

 

h

chair, Jane by his side. L

Jane torn whether to stay with J

tray.
ON THE DOLPHIN MONITOR.

The tendrils still get repulsed. Every now and then. one p

trates slightly, but it always gets pushed back out again
We MOVE IN on Johnny’ tace

JOHNNY'S POV.

Snatches of childhood images

A stark, concrete modern villa, kids' toys in the dal

A couple of xins isolated in a vast landscape d garden.
bored. A NANNY in a lawn chair listens to a Walkman
   
   
    
 
 
  
  
    
   
    
   
  

no Ta SCRGNMLAY JUNOT MENENIC 121

A child’ bed in a soul-less steel-and-glass room, some. Johnny opens his eyes. looks over to J-Bone. who braces

cut from magazines on the wall. himself against a console.
ON THE WIDE SCREEN.

What did ?
Fragments, like shadows of shapes, move in the empty: eet
next to the Cartoon Hero...

Together. they look at the wide screen, Suill only the Japanese
Cartoon Hero, although there are some faint traces in the
video snow on the other screens, faint outlines, tantalizingls
close to becoming recognizable , . .

EXT. HEAVEN. BELOW BRIDGE. NIGHT.

CU muzzle of missile-launcher.

We didn't make it... (gestures to damaged scanner}

Femace Yaxuza (VO): Eat this...
We're not going to either . ..

She fires.
J.Bone’s suddenly GALVANIZED by an image on one of the
SURVEILLANCE MONITORS. the automatic camera SWINGS
PAST a CRUCIFIED LOTEK .. .

/-Bone rushes out of the node. Johnny didn't see the crucihea
Lotek,

INT. HEAVEN, NODE. NIGHT. *

Jounny’s POV.

Again, that image of the woman at her desk, her
over her work. This time, we almost reach the
woman’ head starts to lift... . 1... Lwas almost there, | could feef it starting to . . .

INT. HEAVEN, CORRIDOR FROM NODE. NIGHT. Defeated. Johnny sits up. still preoccupied by his own condi-
Won. Jane is about to go over to him.

Female Yakuza’s second missile DETONATES below
tearing a huge hole through the structure. (OS). Mr. “Smith”?

INT. HEAVEN, NODE. NIGHT.
Tabahashi, immaculate among the ruins, suit black as coal,

Johnny is thrown from his chalr; lies crumpled on cutls white as snow, stands with the .5$7 hanging loosely by his
 

aMAst: | must have the data

 

tat SCHINAY

   
  
    
  

He whirls and SHOOTS as Jane moves, very fast. Misseq ’

finds cover behind a pile of jut

 

You cant shoot me

Not in the head

He lowers the gun to the level of Johnny’ gut.

 

Jane starts to make her move, b

 

t Takahashi is ready
swings the gun. Jane dives back behind the junk

Takahashi takes out the short sword with his free hand
steps toward Johnny. The sword GLINTS; Johnny braces
self
EVERY FUNCTIONING MONITOR in the node LIGHTS:
with Annas face. The effect is of a wave of ENERGY. severalgiy
the damaged monitors simultaneously EXPLODE }

 

   

You don’t now what he
You are weak, Takahashi! &

idea whai you are returning t

 

  

cure for Nerve Attenuation me

OW TAKANASIN
Powerful denial and Yakuza discipline rising to countel

He FIRES at rarctom into the monitors. THREE SHOTS:
SHATTERED SCREENS
 
  
   
  
 
    
  
 
 
    
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
     
  

24 tet SCREENPLAY
You are a ghost! You are madness! You fie!!!

Anna’s face CLICKS into even higher resolution.

Anna: They had the cure one year ago, Takahashi. It
necessary tor your daughter to die . .

Takahashi WINCES.

TAKAHASHI: = Miklyo . .

Awa: Pharmakom is keeping the cure off the market for
of sell-through. Treating the disease is far more pi
curing it. Mikio . . .

As she says the name, she MORPHS into his daughter.

Mikivo (butAnna’ voice): . . . did not need to die. (Mikiyos @
in Japanese. NO SUBTITLES) Please father, listen to

raxanasni’s FACE alight with MAD, TRAGIC
turns back to Johnny, raises his sword; then his
SPASMS.

He sinks to his knees and pitches forward,
who holsters the air gun and takes out his filament.
yaxuza faces off with Jane, aiming his air gun.

Suni: = Hello, Johnny . . .

JOHNNY MMENORIC 26

2ZIP! The filament slices an ellipse from the metal junk where
Johnny's head should have been. Johnny backs up; his fingers
find a CROWBAR among the junk. He brandishes it like 4
weapon. ZINGG! He is holding a twelve-inch stump with a
MIRROR-POLISHED end.

Raise your chin. Let's make this clean.

Second Yabuza aiming across the waist-high console berween
Jane and him. As he fires, she DROPS. Darts SPATTER off the
metal console, missing her.

Jane SCISSORS her legs as she pulls herself below the console
and through, catching Second Yakuza’ legs, dropping him

Johnny quickly backing away out of node over ANOTHER
CONTAINER. Shinji pursues, filament poised.

Jane throws herself on Second Yakuza, driving her PIST into
his throat; his air gun slides across the floor, Jane frantically
clawing after it—

INT, HEAVEN. CONTAINER. NIGHT.

Johnny backs up into a messy storage container. filled with
electronics and other salvaged junk. Not much room to move
and no way out. Shinji lets fly with the filament: Johnny dives
Out of the way. The filament cuts through a stack of rusted
metal junk, barely moving it. Johnny crawls up, backs against
the wall. Shinji moves forward . .

EXT, HEAVEN. BELOW BRIDGE, NIGHT.
Female Yakuza fires...

_INT. HEAVEN, CONTAINER. NIGHT,

The missile DETONATES at the JOINT to the next container.
container tilts down majestically until it hangs vertical,
Jey NecNONE ar

swinging from CREAKING. PROTESTING hawsers. Johnny is
almost thrown out into the river, manages to hang on to 4
protruding GIRDER. DANGLING in space.

Shinji has managed to grab hold of the past of some built-in
sheives. He scrambles down toward Johnny, who thinks its ali
over for him

   
   
 

Sum. Hold on!

Johnny looks at him. He gets it. Gives a crazed WHOOP ot
LAUGHTER.

Jorunny, IFT fall you don’t get the head. right? You lose the head.
you're fucked!

Shinji, sweating bullets, Jeans down, extends his hand
INT. HEAVEN. NODE. NIGHT.

Jane, the Second Yabuza’s air gun in hand, his corpse is at her
feet. She starts after Johnny

Steet Paeacner (OS) Jesus time
Street Preacher blocks her path
INT. HEAVEN. CONTAINER. NIGHT.

ON tounnys WRIST

 

As Shinji hand closes around it. Johnny looks up, GRINS and
lets go with his other hand, reac hing up to grab the lapel of
Shinji suit, pulling him over.

Shinji falls, manages to grab the same girder.
   
  
 
 
   
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
  
   
   
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
  

Te Crea
They dangle next to each other, Shinji closest to the
THE GIRDER, frantically treading air.
BELOW THEM.
Bits of junk failing into darkness, past their legs...

Johnny is SLUGGING Shinji in the face with his tree
100 close to do much real damage, but he’s so PISSED
no longer cares about his own safety. Shinji, we see
considerable satistaction, is TERRIFIED.

Johnny stops punching Shinji, SCREAMS his fury,
body back and SLAMS into Shinji, trying to
Shinji is holding on, tries frantically to climb atop the

ON Jounny as he lets go with one hand and grabs the TH
TIP. pulling it toward hin . . .

sun's EYES, wide with surprise.

Johnny brings the FILAMENT down THROUGH the
slicing through it. . .

Their eyes meet in the instant of Shinjis recognition @
fate—then Shinji and the girder tip plummet from

Shinji SCREAMS as he and the girder tip head for the rivet
scream DOPPLERING down until its INSTANTLY cut
impact with the unseen river below.

Johnny hangs on, as if he cant remember what

 

INT, HEAVEN. NODE. NIGHT.

CRASH... as Street Preacher hurls Jane back

HANEY ENANIC Re

Jockers with such force they buckle slightly. Her eyes ROLL UP
and she flops forward. Street Preacher catches her. With one
hand hooked in the waistband of her jeans, he drags her, face
and boots scraping, across the floor. to-where the explosion
has lett two heavy timbers handily arranged in the form of a
big. rough wooden CROSS. He slams her up against the
<TOSS . .

EXT. HEAVEN. RAMPARTS, NIGHT,

J-Bone kneels, adjusting the laser sight he took from Henson
on his air bow. He aims down . . .

EXT. HEAVEN. BELOW BRIDGE. NIGHT.

Female Yakuza aiming again. A red dot searches over her
body. comes to rest on her forehead .. . A BOLT PLANTS itselt
in the exact spot. Expression of surprise as she beets forward.

INT. HEAVEN. NODE. NIGHT.

Johnny emerges from the container, still trembling with
adrenaline and horror. Takahashi stands in front of him, sway-
ing on his feet, his hand inside his coat. Johnny is too wreckea
to do anything but stare. Takahasht’s face is horribly distortea
én pain, his shirt drenched in blood. He takes his hand from his
jacket, produces IMAGE #2. the RIOTS SCENE. crumpled.
wer with his own blood.

Tawousin, Yours...

Johnny takes it. Stares in wonder as Tabahashi sinks to his
Lnees and dies, Stares at the image. Then he hears SINGING, a
tuneless hymn of death . . .

Preacner (OS); In the blood, in the blood, in the sweet
everlasting blood of the Lamb...
Bo

‘Steter Poracuer: Jesus is waiting ...

 
  
   
  
 
 
  
    
     
   
    
  
 
 
  
  
   
   
   
   
  

Tae SCrenay

Street Preacher holding a SPIKE above Jane’ our,
palm. raising 4 hammer, the crucifixion about to b

Jenny NNENORIC ad)
ON JOHNNY.

As he scrambles to his feet: look of AMAZEMENT on his face-

Street Preacher advances. Johnny backing up. leading him
away from Jane.

Johnny smashes Street Preacher in the back of the head Tee got it... Got it now...

plece of metal junk. Street Preacher staggers, di Preacnun: made vessel of His mercy... As
and hammer, recovers instantly, whirls, knife lashing g we Na _

Johnny's neck. Johnny barely blocks it with the junk, He

gers. Street Preacher easily lifts him and HURLS him hes wor You don't understand! I've got the third image!
into the wall.
Johnny backing through node. Street Preacher stalking him.
sure of the bill.

Jane has grabbed hold of the nail through her other hand.
clenches her teeth. PULLS hard. Wrenches it loose . . .

Johnny makes a last desperate attempt to stop Street Preacher

CLOSE OWN sonnny’s FACE.
Screwed up with pain.

His POV of the node. Odd angle as he sinks to the floo

ANOTHER MEMORY FLASH. with a lightning combination: hard kick at his knees. Like

" hicking a lamppost. A short right to a rock-hard midsection.
Street Preacher back-fists him across the floor. Johnny stays

Of the study. moving toward the woman, The POV down,

the desk. The woman looks up: her face is PEA

erased. The voice is MECHANICALLY distorted. slightly Jane approaches in BG: she’s in worse shape than Johnny. In

slow. pain. She limps/stumbles toward dolphin tank.

Voie: Bad boy! Petacuer: The cure is mine. sinner . .

As Jane reaches tank. Presses her bloody palm against glass

A small hand reaches for a picture trame between 0 Jones’ epe appears.

woman reaches to prevent him. The picture falls.
looks down at the floor, to the fallen picture, laceup.
Anna as the pertect mother, a baby in her arms, POV!
quickly on face, CROPPING the picture, the Cl
UPLOAD REMOTE as it morphs into Anna in B

Jones...

Leaves a bloody palm-print on glass.
CLOSE ON jones’ EYE. gizmo’ swiveling. . .
mw SCHNRAY

 

Inclent deca

ZING feag

with her

 

 

UND powe i Ps he ib
» tite wt t t PES
Preacner: What spawn of Satan
Noe
NFRASOUN ¢ paint ind the scanmess
v NISON
’
NT OF DE ®
*
ate .
» beet .
.
uy 4 ic a °
“7 .
‘ *
.
f
.
REAM .
.
u/ f EX f
EVERYTHING and lunges up, SMAS

  

) backward inte

 
   
    
 
 
 
  
  
    
  
  
 
  
     
     
  
  
   
    
 
  

4 THe SCURNPLAT
Street Preacher ROARS in pain and rage. He grabs the:

Juan menanC 138

shape by the moment. Her eyes are on him. intense. expec
tant

jJounny You're... in my memory . .. somewhere _.. It feels like
like you're my
BLUE-WHITE CURRENT surges through him, smnobe

He stops. the emotion blocked.

Street Preacher’ body falls back to the Noor, his
clutching the cables,

Jane CRASHES trom scanner support. Johnny
ward her as J-Bone enters the node. Johnny kneels
Jane.

Anna: Your mother, | am your mother. | was obsessed with build-
ing Pharmakom, Later, when you had your childhood erased
it was too late for me to... Now | have this final chance.

Johnny's emotions in utter conilict. Finally:

Jane, I'm okay... Jowen, If you're my mother. _., why didn’ you tell me you were

the third image?!

Johnny turns to J-Bone, a new determination in his

Anna winces, hurt. A few more monitors Hicker and her image

Jounny, Hook me up! I've got it? disappears trom them.

Johnny's hands tremble as he scans in Image #2.

Anna: Because | did not £now. | had no access! | arranged tha
Scene appears next to the Cartoon Hero on the wide

they should choose you, because ... | have always watchec

you, Johnny ..
J-Bone; Where's number three?!

Jou: In my head! Jane’ staring at Anna, fascinated.

Johnny rushes to the chair Jone: Hey! We're gonna do the download, we do it now. okay!
We're losing power .__!

INT. HEAVEN. NODE. NIGHT.
Anna’ image FLUCTUATES. Her image disappears from a few
more monitors. Johnny looks to J-Bone. Back to Anna. Ole
hurt and disappointment in his face. In this moment he is the
bullied, neglected child. Then he steps toward the chair, pick:
Up the downloader helmet.

A NUMBER OF MONITORS flicker and Anna apears
1346 te \CHmnaY

Jonny, Tee got to do this

   
    
 
   
 
 
 

Jane helps him put on the helmet. J-Bone winces, s
dials next to a monitor with data.

J-Bont: One problem. If we take it out easy, it's gonna be
because of the seepage. If we loop it through Jones. weg
the cure but its the neurological equivalent of b
jumping through a brick wall; itl probably bill you

Anna (frantic): Johnny. | never meant to—

ON jonny. Looking at Anna’ image, back to Jane.
Turns to J-Bone

Jowery, Loop it

Jane. Johnny
He reaches out to her, then turns to J-Bone.
Jounny: Hit me.
/-Bone throwing switches. White sparks cascade from

tree. Street Preacher STEAMS. sparks snapping around
corpse. Jones surfaces with a SPLASH

ON THE WIDE SCREEN.

As Anna’ Beijing image takes its place next to the others4
}-Bont, Here we go

He flicks another switch

INT, HEAVEN, NODE, NIGHT.

Johnny SPASMS as the download begins, Jones THR
the tank, water flying. Jane takes Johnny's hands
J-Bone swivels to face a bank of CAMERAS. throwing.
Suddenly, his image appears on all of the monitors (except
tryptich).

ON THE MONITORS.

J-Bont: Listen up, world, this is your last blast from Lote
Headquarters and we're going out with a bang! So hit that
now, people, cause we got the cure for NAS, that’s right,
surefire cure for the shakes. coming now. coming at you.
from the labs at Pharmakom. that's right Pharmabom, f
third largest corporation, and, no, they didnt want you to
it, but here it s—

He throws @ switch.

ON THE DOLPHIN MONITOR as the unfolding implant
into a RUSH through CYBERSPACE of the
data...

PHARMAKOM DATA cascades across the screens .
ALL AROUND THE WORLD.

A MONTAGE, showing the data on all TV screens and
tors. in labs, living rooms, tents of nomads, windows of
stores, screen-walls of Shibuya skyscrapers... AS

AUDIENCES

BACK IN THE NODE.

Johnny, straining in the downloader, almost there .. .
DEAD... He opens his eyes for a second. the pain in

   
 
    
   
 
   
  
   
 
    
  
   
   
  
   
  
    

JOenaY HEHE 2B?

approaching panic. His eyes meet Jane’ for a moment. Like 4
good-bye.

pane: Johnny
He squeezes his eyes shut again.
INT, HEAVEN, NODE, NIGHT.
Johnny slumps down in his chair, seemingly lifeless. As almost
all of the live monitors EXPLODE in a SHOWER OF SPARKS.
J-Bone gives a mighty WHOOP of glee!
Bone: Done! It belongs to everybody now! Done!
Jane looks at Johnny. limp in the chair, seemingly dead, rushe:
over.
ON ANNA’ SAD EYES.

On one of the few surviving monitors, her image still deterio
rating, the blue Hames licking their way up.
Anna | built @ world. There was ahrays a place in it lor you—

Johnny’s eyelids Mutter, then open at the sound of her voice
pulled back from the grave.

ON sane, hardly able to contain her reliet.
He Jooks up a Anna. Gathers strength

Journ Lady—/ voted with my feet.
Stung, Anna cringes.

But | was—
« ut

 

 

 

nas image rapidly deteriorating

Pharmakom board! They are erasing me!

    

Burning me out of the mainframe!

 

Johnny turns his eyes away from her. He’ silently CRY

AnnA (OS) Johnny, speak to me! Johnny, you're my son!! Why
don? you look at me!!

yy, Tm not There's nothing inside. Nc

 

what you want

i JOUNNEEEEBeeeee

 

 

lo her, leaving HISSING. SIL

 

ic bs shaben.

Ma Was she really

SEAT as Johnny tries to come to grips with his emotions.

 

Jot I don't know... I quess 1... never did

 

CKET is rising, J-Bone struggles

) the wreckage, heaves aside 4 section of tarp. opening

From outside a distan

 

he night
EMERGENCY FL:

AR HC
HELL. a

on he

    

retty Disne

 

of Newark

  

   

uniny er up. join J-Bone, gazing

out, baffled

 

and Jane. propping eact

Street Preacher starts to rise behind them

 
142 THE SCREENPLAY
JOHNNY: What's going on?

J-Bone: Celebrating. They know. Got our message.

Street Preacher closes in on them...

J-Bone turns, raising air bow. THWACK! A bolt buries ii |
Street Preacher’ heart. He falls back.

J-Bone smiles. Saintly.

J-Bone: Said it's over.

     

They turn back to celebration. CAMERA moves past them i
one of the very few monitors still going, the WIDE SCRE,
the Three Images: the Cartoon Hero, the Riots and Anna.

AOLL CREDITS OVER THIS.
put the shotgun in an Adidas bag and padded it out with four

pairs of tennis socks, not my style at all, but that was what I was
aiming for: If they think you're crude, go technical; if they think
you're technical, go crude. I'm a very technical boy. So I decided to
get as crude as possible. These days, though, you have to be pretty
technical before you can even aspire to crudeness. I'd had to turn
both these twelve-gauge shells from brass stock, on a lathe, and
then load them myself; I'd had to dig up an old microfiche with
instructions for hand-loading cartridges; I'd had to build a lever-
action press to seat the primers—all very tricky. But | knew they'd
work.

The meet was set for the Drome at 2300, but I rode the tube
three stops past the closest platform and walked back. Immaculate
procedure.

| checked myself out in the chrome siding of a coffee kiosk,
your basic sharp-faced Caucasoid with a ruff of stiff, dark hair. The
girls at Under the Knife were big on Sony Mao, and it was getting
harder to keep them from adding the chic suggestion of epicanthic
folds. It probably wouldn't fool Ralfi Face, but it might get me next
to his table.

The Drome is a single narrow space with a bar down one side
and tables along the other, thick with pimps and handlers and an
arcane array of dealers. The Magnetic Dog Sisters were on the door
that night. and I didn’t relish trying to get out past them if things
didn't work out. They were two meters tall and thin as greyhounds.
One was black and the other white, but aside from that they were as
Nearly identical as cosmetic surgery could make them. They'd been
lovers for years and were bad news in a tussle. I was never quite
‘Sure which one had originally been male.

Ralfi was sitting at his usual table. Owing me a lot of money. |

hundreds of megabytes stashed in my head on an idiot/savant

. information I had no conscious access to. Ralfi had left it
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
    
   
  
   
   
   
   
 
 
   
  

44 nme ON

there. He hadn't, however, come back for it Only Ralf could
retrieve the data, with a code phrase of his own invention. I'm not
cheap to begin with, but my overtime on storage {s astronomical.
And Ralfi had been very scarce,

Then I'd heard that Ralfi Face wanted to put out 4 contract on
me. So I'd arranged to meet him in the Drome, but I'd arranged it as
Edward Bax, clandestine importer, late of Rio and Peking.

The Drome stank of biz, a metallic tang of nervous tension,
Muscle-boys scattered through the crowd were flexing stock parts
at one another and trying on thin. cold grins, some of them so lost
under superstructures of muscle graft that their outlines werent

human.
Hee ton i: urdu, ean: teeta: ine leon bese, Fed
Eddie the Importer. with his professionally nondescript gym bag,
and please ignore this slit, just wide enough to admit his right:
Ta eit alone. Eighty kilos of blond California beet perched
alertly in the chair next to his, martial arts written allover him,

Fast Eddie Bax was in the chair opposite them before the beefs
hands were off the table. "You black belt?” | asked eagerly. He:
nodded, blue eyes running an automatic scanning pattem between}
my eyes and my hands. “Me, too,” I said. “Got mine here in the bag’
And I shoved my hand through the slit and thumbed the safety off;
Click. “Double twelve-gauge with the triggers wired together.

“That's a gun,” Ralf said, putting a plump, restraining hand
his boy’s taut blue nylon chest. "Johnny has an antique firearm in
bag.” So much for Edward Bax.

I guess he'd always been Ralf Something or Other, but
owed his acquired surname to a singular vanity. Built
like an overripe pear, he'd worn the once-famous face of Chi
White for twenty years—Christian White of the Aryan
Band, Sony Mao to his generation, and final champion of race
I'm a whiz at trivia,

Christian White: classic pop face with a singer's high-d
muscles, chiseled cheekbones. Angelic in one light, h

 

depraved in another. But Ralf's eyes lived behind that face. an
they were small and cold and black.

“Please,” he said, “let's work this out like businessmen.” Hi
voice was marked by a horrible prehensile sincerity, and the cor
ners of his beautiful Christian White mouth were always wet. “Lewi
here,” nodding in the beefboy’s direction, “is a meatball.” Lewis tool
this impassively, looking like something built from a kit. "You aren’
4 meatball, Johnny.”

“Sure | am, Ralfi, a nice meatball chock-full of implants wher
you can store your dirty laundry while you go off shopping fo!
people to kill me. From my end of this bag, Ralfi, it looks like you've
got some explaining to do.”

“It's this last batch of product, Johnny.” He sighed deeply. “Ir
my role as broker—

“Fence,” | corrected,

“As broker, I'm usually very careful as to sources.”

"You buy only from those who steal the best. Got it.”

He sighed again. “I try,” he said wearily, “not to buy from fools.
This time, I'm afraid, I've done that.” Third sigh was the cue for
Lewis to trigger the neural disruptor they'd taped under my side of
the table.

I put everything I had into curling the index finger of my right
hand, but I no longer seemed to be connected to it. I could feel the
metal of the gun and the foam-pad tape I'd wrapped around the
stubby grip. but my hands were cool wax, distant and inert, | was
hoping Lewis was a true meatball, thick enough to go for the gym
bag and snag my rigid trigger finger, but he wasn't,

“We've been very worried about you, Johnny, Very worried.
You see, that’s Yakuza property you have there. A fool took it from
them. Johnny. A dead fool,”

Lewis giggled.

It all made sense then, an ugly kind of sense, like bags of wet

Sand settling around my head. Killing wasn't Ralfi’s style. Lewis
Wasn't even Ralfi’s style. But he'd got himself stuck between the
Sons of the Neon Chrysanthemum and something that belonged to
   
    
    
 
  
 
 
 
    
    

us te 007

them—or, more likely. something of theirs that belonged to son
one else. Ralf, of course, could use the code phrase to throw
into idiov/savant, and I'd spill their hot program without ren b
ing a single quarter tone. For a fence like Ralf, that would o

know about Squids, for one thing, and they woukint want to worst
about one lifting those dim and permanent traces of their program
out of my head. | didn't know very much about Squids, but fd
heard stories, and | made it a point never to repeat them to my_
clients, No, the Yokuza wouldn't like that: it looked too much
evidence. They hadnt got where they were by leaving evide
around, Or alive.
Lewis was grinning. | think he was visualizing a point
behind my forehead and imagining how he could get there
hard way.

  
 
  
 
   
 
 
  
   
   
   

“Lighten up, You want to buy some good freebase?” She do
up a chair and quickly sat before either of them could stop her. Sh
was barely inside my fixed held of vision, a thin girl with mi ‘
glasses, her dark hair cut in a rough shag, She wore black leat!
open over a T-shirt slashed diagonally with stripes of red and b
“Eight thou a gram weight.”

Lewis snorted his exasperation and tried to slap her out of the
chair. Somehow he didn’ quite connect, and her hand came
and seemed to brush his wrist as it passed. Bright blood sprayed
table. He was clutching his wrist white-knuckle tight, blood t
from between his fingers.

But hadn't her hand been empty?

He was going to need a tendon stapler, He stood up
without bothering to push his chair back. The chair toppled bat
ward, and he stepped out of my line of sight without a word

“He better get a medic to look at that.” she said.
nasty cut”

SHY PER “ye

“You have no idea.” said Ralh. suddenly sounding very tired.
“the depths of shit you have just gotten yoursell into.”

“No kidding? Mystery. | get real excited by mysteries. Like why
your friend here's so quiet. Frozen, like. Or what this thing here is
for.” and she held up the little control unit that she'd somehow
taken from Lewis. Ralh looked ill.

“You, oh, want maybe a quarter-million to give me that and
take o walk?” A fot hand came up to stroke his pale, lean face
nervously.

“What | want,” she said, snapping her fingers so that the unit
spun and glittered, “is work. A job. Your boy hurt his wrist. But a
quarter'll do for a retainer”

Ralf let his breath out explosively and began to laugh. expos-
ing teeth that hadnt been kept up to the Christian White standard.
Then she turned the disruptor off

“Two million.” I said.

“My hind of man.” she said, and laughed. “What's in the bag?”

“A shotgun.”

“Crude. It might have been a compliment.

Rath said nothing at all.

“Name's Millions. Molly Millions. You want to get out of here.
boss? People are starting to stare.” She stood up. She was wearing
leather jeans the color of dried blood.

And I saw for the first time that the mirrored lenses were
surgical inlays, the silver rising smoothly trom her high cheeb-
bones, sealing her eyes in their sockets. | saw my new face neinned
there.

“Tm Johnny.” | said. “We're taking Mr. Face with us”

He was outside, waiting. Looking like your standard tourist tech, in
Plastic zoris and a silly Hawatian shirt printed with blowups of his
firm's most popular microprocessor; 4 mild little guy, the kind most
likely to wind up drunk on sake in a bar that puts out miniature rice
Ctackers with seaweed garnish. He looked like the bind who sing
the corporate anthem and cry, who shabe hands endlessly with the
   
   
 
    
   
 
   
  
  
  
   
     
     
  
    
  
 

60 maou
bartender. And the pimps and the dealers would leave him

The way I figured it |ater, they must have amputated part of
left thumb, somewhere behind the first joint, replacing it with
prosthetic tip, and cored the stump, fitting it with a spool and
molded from one of the Ono-Sendai diamond analogs. Then they’
carefully wound the spool with three meters of
filament.

Molly got into some bind of exchange with the Magnetic
Sisters, giving me a chance to usher Ralf through the door with
gym bag pressed lightly against the base of his spine. She seemed:
know them. | heard the black one laugh.

| glanced up, out of some passing reflex, maybe because I've
never got used to it, to the soaring arcs of light and the shadows
the geodesics above them. Maybe that saved me. _

Rath kept walking, but | don’ think he was trying to escape.
think he'd already given up. Probably he already had an idea
what we were up against. :

| looked back down in time to see him explode.

Playback on full recall shows Ralf stepping forward as
little tech sidles out of nowhere. smiling. Just a suggestion of a
and his left thumb falls off. It's @ conjuring trick. The thumb
suspended. Mirrors? Wires? And Ralf stops. his back to us,
crescents of sweat under the armpits of his pale summer suit.
knows. He must have known, And then the joke-shop
heavy as lead, arcs out in a lightning yo-yo trick, and the
thread connecting it to the killer's hand passes laterally
Ralf's shull, just above his eyebrows. whips up, and
slicing the pear-shaped torso diagonally from shoulder to rib
Cuts 50 fine that no blood flows until synapses mishre and the’
tremors surrender the body to gravity.

Rath tumbled apart in a pink cloud of fluids, the
matched sections rolling forward onto the tiled pavement.
silence,

  
  

 

T brought the gym bag up, and my hand convulsed. The recoil
nearly broke my wrist.

It must have been raining: ribbons of water Cascaded from a rup-
tured geodesic and spattered on the tile behind us, We crouched in
the narrow gap between a surgical boutique and an antique shop.
She'd just edged one mirrored eye around the corner to report a
single Volks module in front of the Drome. red lights flashing. They
were sweeping Rath up. Asking questions.

T was covered in scorched white fluff. The tennis socks. The
gym bag was a ragged plastic cuff around my wrist. “I dont see how
the hell | missed him.”

* Cause he's fast. so fast.” She hugged her knees and rocked
back and forth on her bootheels. “His nervous system's jacked up.
He's factory custom.” She grinned and gave a little squeal of delight.
“Tm gonna get that boy. Tonight. He's the best. number one. top
dollar, state of the art”

“What you're going to get, for this boy's two million, is my ass
out of here. Your boyfriend back there was mostly grown in a vat in
Chiba City. He's a Yakuza assassin.”

“Chiba, Yeah. See, Molly's been Chiba, 100.” And she showed
tapered. very white against the polished burgundy nails. Ten blades
snicked straight out from their recesses beneath her nails, each one
8 narrow, double-edged scalpel in pale blue steel.

fd never spent much time in Nighttown. Nobody there had any-
thing to pay me to remember, and most of them had a lot they paid
regularly to forget. Generations of sharpshooters had chipped
away at the neon until the maintenance crews gave up. Even at
Roon the arcs were soot-black against faintest pearl.

Where do you go when the world’s wealthiest criminal order is
feeling for you with calm. distant fingers? Where do you hide from
 
   
  
   
 
 
   
    
     
 
  
   
   
 
   
   

62 maou

the Yakuza. so powerful that it owns comsats and at least three
shuttles? The Yakuza is a true multinational, like ITT and
Sendai, Fifty pears before | was born the Yabuza had already
sorbed the Triads, the Mafia. the Union Corse.

Molly had an answer: you hide in the Pit, in the lowest circle,
where any outside influence generates swift, concentric ripples of
row menace, You hide in Nighttown. Better yet. you hide above
Nighttown, because the Pits inverted. and the bottom of Its bow!
touches the sky, the sky that Nighttown never sees. sweating under

shadows that waited beyond the bright tube platform. The concrete
walls were overlaid with graffiti, years of them twisting into a single
metascraw! of rage and frustration.

my standard sales pitch, “Client's code is stored in a special
barring Squids, which we in the trade don't like to talk about.
No way to recover pour phrase. Cant drug it out. cut it out,
it. | dont 2now it, never did”

“Squids? Crawly things with arms?” We emerged into 4
serted street market. Shadowy figures watched us from across:
mabeshift square linered with fish heads and rotting fruit.

“Superconducting quantum interference detectors.
them in the war to find submarines, suss out enemy cyber 5

“Yeah? Navy stuff? From the war? Squid! read that chip)
yours?” She'd stopped walking. and | felt her eyes on me
those twin mirrors.

per out of a cheering stadium

JY mec 63

“Cops can do that already. with parabolic microphones and
lasers.”

“But your data’s still secure.” Pride in profession. "No govern-
ment'll fet their cops have Squids, not even the security heavies.
Too much chance of interdepartmental funnies; they're too likely
to Watergate you.”

“Navy stuff,” she said, and her grin gleamed in the shadows.
“Navy stuff. 1 got 4 friend down here who was in the navy, name's
Jones. | think you'd better meet him. He's a junkie, though. So well
have to take him something”

He was more than a dolphin, but from another dolphin’s point of
view he might have seemed like something less. | watched him
swirling sluggishly in his galvanized tank, Water slopped over the
side, wetting my shoes. He was surplus from the last war. A
cyborg.

He rose out of the water, showing us the crusted plates along
his sides, a kind of visual pun, his grace nearly lost under articu-
lated armor, clumsy and prehistoric. Twin deformities on either
side of his skull had been engineered to house sensor units. Silver
lesions gleamed on exposed sections of his gray-white hide

Molly whistled. Jones thrashed his tail, and more water cas-
caded down the side of the tank.

“What is this place?” | peered at vague shapes in the dark.
Tusting chain link and things under tarps. Above the tank hung ¢
Slumsy wooden framework, crossed and recrossed by rows ot
dusty Christmas lights.

“Punland, Zoo and carnival rides. Talk with the War Whale.’ AI’
that. Some whale Jones is...”

Jones reared again and fed me with a sad and ancient eye

“How's he tal?” Suddenly | was anxious to go.

“That's the catch. Say ‘hi,’ Jones.~
“et i

 
  
 
   
  
   
    
   
   
   
  
  
    
   

And all the bulbs lit simultaneously. They were flashing red,
white, and blue.

RWBRWBRWB
RWBRWBRWB

“Good with symbols, see, but the code’s restricted. In the navy
they had him wired into an audiovisual display.” She drew the
narrow package from a jacket pocket. “Pure shit, Jones. Want it?” He
froze in the water and started to sink. | felt a strange panic, remem-
bering that he wasn’t a fish. that he could drown. “We want the key
to Johnny's bank, Jones, We want it fast.”

The lights flickered, died.

“Go for it. Jones!”

B
BBBBBBBBB
B
B
B
Blue bulbs, cruciform.

Darkness.
“Pure! It’s clean. Come on, Jones.”

White sodium glare washed her features, stark
shadows cleaving from her cheekbones.

R
RR
RRRRR OR

The arms of the red swastika were twisted in her silver glasses
“Give it to him,” | said. “We've got it.”

Ralf Face. No imagination.

Jones heaved half his armored bulk over the edge of his tank,
and | thought the metal would give way. Molly stabbed him over-
hand with the Syrette. driving the needle between two plates.
Propellant hissed. Patterns of light exploded, spasming across the
frame and then fading to black.

We left him drifting, rolling languorously in the dark water.
Maybe he was dreaming of his war in the Pacific, of the cyber mines
he'd swept, nosing gently into their circuitry with the Squid he'd used
to pick Ralf's pathetic password from the chip buried in my head.

“I can see them slipping up when he was demobbed, letting
him out of the navy with that gear intact, but how does a cybernetic
dolphin get wired to smack?”

“The war,” she said. “They all were. Navy did it. How else you
get ‘em working for you?”

‘Tm not sure this profiles as good business.” the pirate said, angling
for better money. “Target specs on a comsat that isn’t in the book—"
“Waste my time and you won't profile at all.” said Molly. lean-
ing across his scarred plastic desk to prod him with her forefinger.
“So maybe you want to buy your microwaves somewhere
else?” He was a tough kid, behind his Mao-job. A Nighttowner by
birth, probably.
Her hand blurred down the front of his jacket, completely
severing a lapel without even rumpling the fabric.
“So we got a deal or nor?”
156 Tit SOR

“Deal,” he said, staring at his ruined lapel with what he must
have hoped was only polite interest. “Deal.”

While I checked the two recorders we'd bought, she extracted
the slip of paper I'd given her from the zippered wrist pocket of her
jacket. She unfolded it and read silently, moving her lips. She
shrugged. “This is it?”

“Shoot.” | said, punching the recoRD studs of the two decks j
simultaneously.

"Christian White.” she recited. “and his Aryan Reggae Band.”

Faithful Ralfi, a fan to his dying day.

Transition to idiovsavant mode is always less abrupt than |
expect it to be. The pirate broadcaster's front was a failing travel
agency in a pastel cube that boasted a desk, three chairs, and a
faded poster of a Swiss orbital spa. A pair of toy birds with blown-
glass bodies and tin legs were sipping monotonously from a Sty- —
rofoam cup of water on 4 ledge beside Molly's shoulder. As I phased
imto mode, they accelerated gradually until their Day-Glo-
feathered crowns became solid arcs of color. The LEDs that told
seconds on the plastic wall clock had become meaningless pulsing
grids, and Molly and the Mao-faced boy grew hazy, their arms
blurring occasionally in insect-quick ghosts of gesture. And then it
all faded to cool gray static and an endless tone poem in an artificial
language.

I sat and sang dead Ralf's stolen program for three hours.

 
  
      
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
    
  
  

The mall runs forty kilometers from end to end. a ragged overlap of
Fuller domes roofing what was once a suburban artery. If they turn
off the arcs on a clear day, a gray approximation of sunlight filters
through layers of acrylic, a view like the prison sketches of Gio
vanni Piranesi. The three southernmost kilometers roof Night
Nighttown pays no taxes, no utilities, The neon arcs are dead, @
the geodesics have been smoked black by decades of cooking
In the nearly total darkness of a Nighttown noon, who notices @
dozen mad children lost in the rafters? 7

We'd been climbing for two hours, up concrete staits

JUEENY ELEC 15)

steel ladders with perforated rungs, past abandoned gantries and
dust-covered tools, We'd started in what looked like a disused
maintenance yard, stacked with triangular roofing segments. Ev-
erything there had been covered with that same uniform layer of
spraybomb graffiti; gang names, initials, dates back to the turn of
the century. The graffiti followed us up. gradually thinning until a
single name was repeated at intervals. LO Tex. In dripping black
capitals.

“Who's Lo Tek”

“Not us, boss.” She climbed a shivering aluminum ladder and
vanished through a hole in a sheet of corrugated plastic. ~ ‘Low
technique, low technology.“ The plastic muffled her voice. | fol-
lowed her up, nursing my aching wrist. “Lo Teks, they'd think that
shotgun trick of yours was effete,”

An hour later I dragged myself up through another hole, this
one sawed crookedly in a sagging sheet of plywood, and met my
first Lo Tek.

*'S okay.” Molly said, her hand brushing my shoulder. “It's just

In the narrow beam of her taped flash. he regarded us with his
one eye and slowly extruded a thick length of grayish tongue.
licking huge canines. | wondered how they wrote off tooth-bud

“Moll.” Dental augmentation impeded his speech. A string of
saliva dangled from his twisted lower lip. “Heard ya comin’. Long
time.” He might have been fifteen, but the fangs and a bright mosaic
of scars combined with the gaping socket to present a mask of total
bestiality. It had taken time and a certain kind of creativity to
assemble that face, and his posture told me he enjoyed living
behind it. He wore a pair of decaying jeans, black with grime and
shiny along the creases. His chest and feet were bare. He did
Something with his mouth that approximated a grin. “Bein’ fol-
lowed, you.”

Far off, down in Nighttown, a water vendor cried his trade.

“Strings jumping. Dog?” She swung her flash to the side, and |
188 te ssOu

  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

saw thin cords tied to eyebolts, cords that ran to the edge and
vanished,

“Kill the fuckin’ light!”

She snapped it off.

"How come the one who's followin’ you's got no light?”

"Doesn't need it. That one’s bad news. Dog. Your sentries give
him a tumble, theyll come home in easy-to-carry sections.”

“This a friend friend, Moll?” He sounded uneasy. | heard his
feet shift on the worn plywood.

“No. But he’s mine. And this one,” slapping my shoulder, “he’s a
friend. Got that?”

“Sure.” he said. without much enthusiasm, padding to the
platform's edge, where the eyebolts were. He began to pluck out
some kind of message on the taut cords.

Nighttown spread beneath us like 4 toy village for rats; tiny
windows showed candlelight, with only a few harsh, bright squares
lit by battery lanterns and carbide lamps. | imagined the old men at
their endless games of dominoes, under warm. fat drops of water
that fell from wet wash hung out on poles between the plywood
shanties. Then | tried to imagine him climbing patiently up through
the darkness in his zoris and ugly tourist shirt, bland and unhurried.
How was he tracking us?

“Good.” said Molly. “He smells us~

“Smoke?” Dog dragged a crumpled pack from his pocket and prized
out a flattened cigarette. | squinted at the trademark while he lit it
for me with a kitchen match. Yiheyuan filters, Beijing Cigarette
Factory. I decided that the Lo Teks were black marketeers. Dog and
Molly went back to their argument, which seemed to revolve |
around Molly's desire to use some particular piece of Lo Tek
estate.

"Ive done you a lot of favors, man. I want that floor. And
want the music.”

“You're not Lo Tek...”

This must have been going on for the better part of a

Sen MERON 165

kilometer, Dog leading us along swaying catwalks and up rope
ladders, The Lo Teks leech their webs and huddling places to the
city’s fabric with thick gobs of epoxy and sleep above the abyss in
mesh hammocks. Their country is so attenuated that in places it
consists of little more than holds for hands and feet, sawed into
geodesic struts.

The Killing Floor, she called it. Scrambling after her, my new
Eddie Bax shoes slipping on worn metal and damp plywood, |
wondered how it could be any more lethal than the rest of the
territory, At the same time I sensed that Dog's protests were ritual
and that she already expected to get whatever it was she wanted.

Somewhere beneath us, Jones would be circling his tank,
feeling the first twinges of junk sickness. The police would be boring
the Drome regulars with questions about Ralf. What did he do?
Who was he with before he stepped outside? And the Yakuza would
be settling its ghostly bulk over the city’s data banks, probing for
faint Images of me reflected in numbered accounts, securities
transactions, bills for utilities. We're an information economy. They
teach you that in school. What they don’ tell you is that it's impossi-
ble to move, to live, to operate at any level without leaving traces,
bits, seemingly meaningless fragments of personal information.
Fragments that can be retrieved, amplified . . .

But by now the pirate would have shuttled our message into
line for blackbox transmission to the Yakuza comsat. A simple
message: Call off the dogs or we wideband your program,

The program. | had no idea what it contained. | still don't. |
Only sing the song, with zero comprehension. It was probably
research data, the Yakuza being given to advanced forms of indus-
trial espionage. A genteel business, stealing from Ono-Sendai as a
matter of course and politely holding their data for ransom, threat-
ening to blunt the conglomerate’s research edge by making the
Product public.

But why couldn't any number play? Wouldn't they be happier
with something to sell back to Ono-Sendai, happier than they'd be
With one dead Johnny from Memory Lane?

Their program was on its way to an address in Sydney, to a
“Oo Te OW

place that held letters for clients and didn't ask questions once
you'd paid 4 small retainer. Fourth-class surface mail. I'd erased
most of the other copy and recorded our message in the resulting
gap. leaving just enough of the program to identify it as the real
thing.
My wrist hurt. I wanted to stop, to lie down, to sleep, I knew
that I'd lose my grip and fall soon, knew that the sharp black shoes
I'd bought for my evening as Eddie Bax would lose their purchase
and carry me down to Nighttown, But he rose in my mind like a
cheap religious hologram, glowing, the enlarged chip on his Hawai-
jan shirt looming like # reconnaissance shot of some doomed
urban nucleus,

So | followed Dog and Molly through Lo Tek heaven, jury-
rigged and jerry-built from scraps that even Nighttown didn’t want,

The Killing Floor was eight meters on a side. A giant had
threaded steel cable back and forth through a junkyard and drawn
it all taut. It creaked when it moved, and it moved constantly,
swaying and bucking as the gathering Lo Teks arranged themselves
on the shelf of plywood surrounding it. The wood was silver with
age, polished with long use and deeply etched with initials, threats.
declarations of passion. This was suspended from a separate set of
cables, which lost themselves in darkness beyond the raw white
glare of the two ancient floods suspended above the Floor.

A girl with teeth like Dog's hit the Floor on all fours. Her breasts
were tattooed with indigo spirals. Then she was across the Floor,
laughing, grappling with a boy who was drinking dark liquid from 4
liter flask.

Lo Tek fashion ran to scars and tattoos. And teeth. The electric-
ity they were tapping to light the Killing Floor seemed to be an
exception to their overall aesthetic, made in the name of. . . ritual,
sport, art? | didn’t know, but I could see that the Ploor was
thing special. It had the look of having been assembled over
ations,

L held the useless shotgun under my jacket, Its hardness
heft were comforting, even though | had no more shells.
came to me that I had no idea at all of what was really

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

Jt MeN, \

or of what was supposed to happen, And that was the nature of m
game, because I'd spent most of my life as a blind receptacle to b
filled with other people's knowledge and then drained, spoutin
synthetic languages Td never understand. A very technical bos
Sure.

And then | noticed just how quiet the Lo Tebs had become

He was there, at the edge of the light, taking in the Killing Floot
and the gallery of silent Lo Teks with a tourists calm. And as ou:
eyes met for the first time with mutual recognition, 4 memory
clicked into place for me. of Paris, and the long Mercedes electrics
gliding through the rain to Notre Dame: mobile greenhouses. Japa-
nese faces behind the glass, and a hundred Nikons rising in blind
phototropism, flowers of steel and crystal, Behind his eyes, as they
found me, those same shutters whirring.

| looked for Molly Millions. but she was gone.

The Lo Teks parted to let him step up onto the bench. He
bowed, smiling, and stepped smoothly out of his sandals, leaving
them side by side, perfectly aligned. and then he stepped down
a ohorat et Pove. Hie come for me, across thet shifting wam-
poline of scrap, as easily as tourist
in any featureless hotel. = —e

Molly hit the Floor, moving.

The Floor screamed.

It was miked and amplifed. with pickups riding the four fat
coil springs at the corners and contact mikes taped at random to
fusting machine fragments. Somewhere the Lo Teks had an amp
and @ synthesizer, and now | made out the shapes of speakers
overhead, above the cruel white floods.

A drumbeat >
“ue electronic, like an amplified heart, steady

She'd removed her leather jacket and boots: her T-shirt
sleeveless faint telhales of Chiba City circuitry traced along her thin
enna int Heather Jeans gleamed under the floods. She began to

She flexed her knees, white feet tensed on a flattened gas tank,

and the Killing Floor began to heave in response. The sound it
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
    
  

142 te KOU

made was like a world ending, like the wires that hold heaven
snapping and coiling across the sky.

He rode wi % for a few heartbeats, and then he moved,
judging the movement of the Floor perfectly, like a man stepping
from one flat stone to another in an ornamental garden.

He pulled the tip from his thumb with the grace of a man at
ease with social gesture and flung it at her. Under the floods, the
filament was a refracting thread of rainbow. She threw herself flat
and rolled, jackknifing up as the molecule whipped past, steel claws
snapping into the light in what must have been an automatic rictus
Te rea semen same peneneh neki macelabliticheciith
hair wild around the blank silver lenses, her mouth thin, lips taut
with concentration, The Killing Floor boomed and roared, and the

screaming their excitement.
0 ae aceaeue to a whirling meter-wide circle of
ghostly polychrome and spun it in front of hini, thumbless hand
held level with his sternum. A shield.

And Molly seemed to let something go, something inside, and
that was the real start of her mad-dog dance. She jumped, twisting,
lunging sideways. landing with both feet on an alloy engine block
wired directly to one of the coil springs. | cupped my hands over
my ears and knelt in a vertigo of sound, thinking Floor and benches
were on their way down, down to Nighttown, and | saw us tearing
through the shanties, the wet wash, exploding on the tiles like
rotten fruit, But the cables held, and the Killing Floor rose and fell

metal sea. And Molly danced on it.
ae ar es dun ead, fant batons fe wide bls Gal cost ahh 0
filament, I saw something in his face, an expression that didn't seem
to belong there. It wasn't fear and it wasn't anger, | think it was
disbelief, stunned incomprehension mingled with pure
revulsion at what he was seeing, hearing—at what was
to him. He retracted the whirling filament, the ghost disk
to the size of a dinner plate as he whipped his arm above his
and brought it down, the thumbtip curving out for Molly like
thing.

JONNY NBEMONIC %

The Floor carried her down, the molecule passing just abow
her head; the Floor whiplashed, lifting him into the path of the tau
molecule. It should have passed harmlessly over his head and beer
withdrawn into its diamond-hard socket, It took his hand off jus
behind the wrist. There was a gap in the Floor in front of him, anc
he went through it like diver, with a strange deliberate grace, ¢
defeated kamikaze on his way down to Nighttown, Partly, | think
he took the dive to buy himself a few seconds of the dignity o
silence. She'd killed him with culture shock.

The Lo Teks roared, but someone shut the amplifier off. and
Molly rode the Killing Floor into silence, hanging on now, her face
white and blank. until the pitching slowed and there was only a
faint pinging of tortured metal and the grating of rust on rust.

We searched the Floor for the severed hand, but we never
found it. All we found was a graceful curve in one piece of rusted

steel, where the molecule went through. Its edge was bright as new
chrome,

We never learned whether the Yakuza had accepted our terms, or
even whether they got our message. As far as | know. their program
is still waiting for Eddie Bax on a shelf in the back room of a gift
shop on the third level of Sydney Central-s. Probably they sold the
original back to Ono-Sendai months ago. But maybe they did get
the pirate’s broadcast, because nobody's come looking for me yet,
and it's been nearly a year. If they do come. they'll have a long climb
up through the dark, past Dog’s sentries, and I don't look much like
Eddie Bax these days. | let Molly take care of that, with a local
anesthetic. And my new teeth have almost grown in.

I decided to stay up here. When | looked out across the Killing
Floor, before he came, | saw how hollow | was. And | knew I was
sick of being a bucket. So now I climb down and visit Jones, almost
every night.

We're partners now, Jones and I, and Molly Millions, too. Molly
handles our business in the Drome. Jones is still in Funland, but he
has a bigger tank, with fresh seawater trucked in once a week, And
1464 THE STORY

he has his junk, when he needs it. He still talks to the kids with his
frame of lights, but he talks to me on a new display unit in a shed
that I rent there, a better unit than the one he used in the navy.

And we're all making good money, better money than | made
before, because Jones's Squid can read the traces of anything that
anyone ever stored in me, and he gives it to me on the display unit
in languages | can understand. So we're learning a lot about all my
former clients. And one day I'll have a surgeon dig all the silicon out
of my amygdalae, and I'll live with my own memories and nobody
else's, the way other people do. But not for a while.

In the meantime it's really okay up here, way up in the dark,
smoking a Chinese filtertip and listening to the condensation that
drips from the geodesics. Real quiet up here—unless a pair of Lo
Teks decide to dance on the Killing Floor.

It's educational, too. With Jones to help me figure things out,
I'm getting to be the most technical boy in town.
