THE TREE OF LIFE

A Screenplay
by

Y .
Terrence Malick

First Draft

© Registered with the
Writers Guild of America
25 June 2007
PREFACE

The "I" who speaks in this story £5 not
the author. Rather, he hopes that you
might see yourself in this "I* an
understand this story as your own.
PART ONE
EXT. O'BRIEN HOUSE

An ordinary house in central Texas. A neighborhood at the
edge of town.

Three children -- brothers -- are playing in the back yard.
The eldest, 11, is JACK. RL is two years younger, and STEVE
is 6. Their MOTHER and FATHER, Mr. and Mrs. O'Brien, look on.

In the center of the yard stands a tall oak tree. The year is
1956.

OTHER ANGLES

The boys play with their dog, SHEP Their mother smiles,
content. Life has covered her with blessing. There is nothing
she sees but it means her good.

Her heart, it seems, is especially drawn to her middle son;
the sweetest, most genial of the boys.

The sun is setting in the west. A doorbell rings.

EXT. O'BRIEN HOUSE - TWELVE YEARS LATER

Twelve years later, a Western Union man walks away from the
house. Mrs. O'Brien leans against a wall as she reads a
telegram.

INT. O'BRIEN HOUSE

Mr. O'Brien watches Q@s his wife stares out the window.

FATHER
Can I do anything?

She shakes her head. She lets him kiss her, but generally
seems unaware of him. She notices nothing; says nothing.

He must be strong. There will be time enough for tears. He
grieves for her more than for himself -- that she should be
stricken in this way, a woman so faithful, kind and upright --
who through the whole of her life has denied herself -~ who
has loved the good -- given to the poor, comforted the
desolate. A flashforward: Men rise up and bow when she passes
by.

INT. O'BRIEN HOUSE

Friends have come to visit.
BETTY
You did everything in the world to
make him happy. No one could have
had a better life.

JAN
He was such a fine boy.

RUTH
-- Such a fine musician! The
sweetest child I ever saw.

BETTY
He only goes a little before the
rest of us.

RUTH
It's all so bitter now, hut--

you'll have lovely memories of him.

Those can't be taken away.

The memories are a torment to her, not a consolation.

JAN
He'll always live in your heart.

Live? That is what he will not do.
BETTY
We never really part. Not from
those we love.

JAN
The pain will pass away.

She does not wan} i+ to. No, she wants to keep it, always. A

shard of glass in her heart.

RUTH
He's at peace.

Let them live in their naive illusion. If only she still
could! To hear his name spoken is more than she can bear.

Does no one understand?

Now, when others look at her, they glance quickly away. She
is aware of being an uncomfortable presence to everyone she

meets, particularly when she speaks.

BETTY
.-.He's in God's hands now.
Where is God? Where was he then? Nature gives no answer,
whispers not a word. The child was in God's hands the whole
time, was he not?

JAN
+.-He didn't suffer. He's better
off where he is... It's so hard —-
you can do everything right, and
still --

Their voices seem far away, as though they were speaking to
her through a tunnel. Let them talk to each other. Not to
her.

A vast, barren plain. Death reveals the emptiness that was
there before. ‘

Nothing is but it. The fact is like a wall. She can see
nothing else. Nothing beyond.

Shattered, so many lives; cast blindly here and there, like
water from rock to rock.

INT. O'BRIEN HOUSE

She cannot look in his room. When she does, he dies to her a
second time. She paces before the closed door.

INT. O'BRIEN HOUSE
Her would-be comforters go away dismayed and apprehensive:
Why she, and not thay? They are themselves bewildered, some
reduced to tears.
JAN
The best woman in the whole town!
RUTH
There may be things that we don't
know.

BETTY (0.8.)
She still has two left.

She overhears their voices after they are gone. How much more
easily they speak as soon as they are out of her presence!

Not just her child -- it seems that all creation has died.
Nature has betrayed the heart that loved it.

A child appears with a casserole.
BOY
Mom sent this.

He quickly retreats, his eyes fixed on the ground.

In the next room, Mr. O'Brien laughs and shakes his head. He
does not seem quite to have taken it all in.

FATHER
That rascal! I remember how you
couldn't get him into the tub.
Then, once he was in, you couldn't
get him back out!

The grey dawn of the next day. The O’Brien house seems no
different from any other on the bleck. The postman goes about
his business. The paperboy.

The men of the neighborhood speak among ‘Yhemselves in hushed
voices as they set their sprinklers out at dusk. The fall of
the O'Brien house strikes awe in them. A family once happy
and prosperous, brought down in sorrow and doom.

TIGHT ON MRS. O'BRIEN

Through a crack in the bedroom door she sees her husband on
his knees. What good has it brought him? Would he pray to a
spider?

Gardenias, a climbing rose. Nature puts forth life at will.
Why should a dog have breath, her child none?

Later, when someone reaches for the child's guitar, she hears
her husband insist +hat if not be moved. Not an inch.

MR. O'BRIEN

Her husband, too, attempts to console her. But having an
equal cause for sorrow, he is no more convincing than her
friends have been.

Grief so deep has made her unfamiliar to him; almost holy.
Still he must say something.

FATHER
We have -- to be strong -- for them
-- for the other boys. We can't let

them see --
(she looks away)
I haven't been the husband you
deserve -~ I haven't loved you
enough -- still -- let me into your
“ heart. Let us share the grief.
: FATHER (CONT'D)
It's too hard alone. I thought we
would go first -- never have to
know -- to see --

(she looks up)
I wish it could have been me. I
took the confidence out of him. I
never got a chance to tell him --
how sorry I was! I made him unhappy
-- anxious -- I did it out of love!
Forgive me!

She hesitates, waits until she can swallow back a sob to
speak -- then can find nothing to say. What did they do to
bring such a calamity on themselves? What did the world gain?
It neither knew nor cared.

FATHER (CONT'D)
I'm going to be strong for him,
That's what he'd want, and ‘that's
what he's going to get.

An empty swing. A slide. A bridge. Grass fading in the August
heat. .

He takes her into his arms. How small their differences seem
now! He loves her wholly. They are one at last, in grief.

MOTHER (0.S.)
Do we say we have three boys, or
two?
(in a whisper)
I hate my life -- I want to die --
to” with him ~- my child!

She will not be consoled. We looks at her, helpless.
MOTHER (CONT'D)
(suddenly)

Whatever I say, don't believe it.
Alone, she prays. She hears no answering voice.
Mr. O'Brien closes the lid of his piano.
Her soul is gone. Her good. She goes about her life; she
walks, eats, sleeps, wakes up. But she does not live. Each
place, each hour is the same.
The best of her lay in his soul. She lived through him, saw
through his eyes. Apart from him she cannot see the work of
God, or nature's order. In her is death; im him was life.

A bare tree in winter. Nature lied.
JACK (ADULT) - SERIES OF ANGLES

Gradually we become aware of Jack, their eldest son, grown up
now. The others have tried and failed to console his mother.
How shall he?

JACK (0.S.)

It broke your heart. Never
afterwards were you the same --
your faith in goodness shaken --
though carefully you kept it
secret, lest our faith be shaken,
too.

(she walks alone)
In vain! We knew!

Gone. He has left the world a shar A friend whispers in Mrs.
O'Brien's ear: .

MRS. STONE
Don't let them console you. Don't
forget! For a long time you'll have
the pain. But it will turn to joy --
in the end.

We are aboard a train, plunging through the countryside; the
locomotive far ahead, barely visible. A blind, overwhelming
force.

JACK (0.S.)
Why do you grieve and waste away?
You 3e: love flowed out

un ly!

The rails weave in and out »eneath the wheels. The steel
lines of fate. I+ runs along its way, defies all other paths,
all walls, crashes ‘hrough every obstacle.

She cannot be persuaded to turn or look. She sits with her
face averted, staring at the ground.

Each day she finds it harder to bear. She cannot read, or
sleep. The dawn light coming in through the window is ghastly
to her. It is as though he had died again. And. yet she would
not be surprised if he were to walk into the room.

Children play. Spring comes. The crocus raise their heads.
The redbuds blaze. They return.

A door through which one fears to look. A path one shrinks
from taking. Empty parks. A vast, neglected garden. A gate.
The past consuming all.
Decaying statues in a long, straight lane of trees. The
figures of forgotten gods. They gaze at the horizon as though
in search of their deliverer. Balustrades; a drained pool.
Walks strewn with sodden leaves. Stairs that lead nowhere. A
butterfly.”

She remembers when the sun shone about her, when it seemed
that she would die in her nest.

Crows hovering over a stubble field, foraging in the furrows.

JACK (0.S.) (CONT'D)
Who are you that took him? You
smash what. is most dear --» send
flies to wounds you might have.
healed. Who can hinder ~ you?

Friends come by less. She does not mind Her child is more
present to her in death than, really, they in life.

Good night, my child. She shall not see him. Till heaven and
earth have passed away.

Sent for nothing. The faces of those who live on; strangers,
preferred to him.

‘High overhead, migrating geese call to each other; separated,
lost in the clouds.

A buoy, clanging in the fog.
Nature has returned to chaos.

A hand on a curtain. What is death? What will it be like? The
pictures stop. The movie ends.

Jack stops on the Street, listens. It is as though the wind
were trying to tell him something.

He finds himself on a staircase, its upper and lower reaches
lost in the darkness.

JACK (0.S.) (CONT'D)
You whom we met in the woods and on
the hills, whom first in her eyes
we knew -- how shall I name you?

CcUs to show his mother's air of embarrassed shyness; her good
humor and truthfulness; her affectionate, sorrowing face,
always looking into him, wishing him strength and happiness.
Her hands when she is very old: those worn hands that once
held so much that was dear to them, that once he could take
and hold as tightly and for as long as he wished. Soon he
must lose her, too, with all he loves.

Change; the spring of all sorrow. Is anything exempt from
birth, growth and decay? Nothing everlasting?

A shadow dancing on the ground. This world is passing away.

His father, who at first was careful to remain calm and
composed, rips off his coat and tears at his hair in grief.

JACK (0.S8.) (CONT'D)
Teach me the way to you.

The oak tree in the front yard. Its roots fgach down into the
darkness of the earth, towards its cemfer Qnd source. The
branches spread towards the light, towards _discovery and
utterance; a fountain of life.

JACK (0.S.) (CONT'D)
Brother, dear brother -- We had one
heart within us. One soul -- where
you left off and I began, I could
not tell.

The immovable trunk, a universe of leaves spreading above it,
whispering; an oracle.

JACK (0.S.) (CONT'D)
Wher are you? How shall I find you
again? I will go in search of you --
through all the worlds.

The camera rises Vhrough the branches, seeks a way towards
the sky above.

JACK (0.S.) (CONT'D)
Brother, speak through me! Guide
me! Answer me from where you are!
See what I was, what I am now! Lend
your spirit to this song!

He discovers himself on the verge of falling asleep at the
wheel of a car. He fights to stay awake. The car is drifting
off the road, and still he cannot rouse himself to
consciousness, to the required act of will.

A hand touches his shoulder, waking him —-
EXT. CITY OF DESTRUCTION - THE ARTIFICIAL WORLD - LATE DAY TO
NIGHT TO DAWN - JACK (ADULT)

Jack wakes to find himself in that landscape of paralysis and
despair which today goes by the name of a city. The familiar
world has assumed a threatening aspect.

A number of scenes with the adult Jack follow encounters with
friends and strangers. To avoid interrupting the flow of the
narrative, we will not specify them here.’ From time to time
we hear Jack's thoughts. He leads us through the story.

The cutting is quick and staccato, to suggest the fractured
quality of modern life.

His eyes are bright with longing. He never lingers anywhere
for long but is forever off, forever moving ‘on. Where did he
go wrong, or wander from the path?

The stars are washed out. The sky is a haze. The moon shines
down like any other senseless light, high above the towers of
steel and glass. Where in these streets can he find any
evidence of the world's order, any sign to help him on his
way?

The others do not meet his eyes. Each makes his way alone,
shut up within himself. None can be sure of the other. No tie
is fixed or lasting.

Like a bird trapped inside a room, beating against the
windows and ceiling, the soul struggles for a time, then
sinks down in defe.

The buildings hem him round like the trees of a wild forest.
A false nature; & unwerse of death. A sightless world,
roofed over, shut off from things above. Here one must stoop
to walk. A world that would exclude the transcendent, that
says: I am, and there is nothing else. A world without love.

It seems he could escape if only he could bring himself to
will it. Somehow he cannot. He has gone to sleep, he cannot
wake up. He wakes from one dream to another.

The sights of a modern city: it could be Chicago, New York,
Houston, Paris, Mumbai, Los Angeles, or a composite of them

all. We never see it whole -- no skyline or defining monument
-- fragments only -- a frenzy of things and people on the
move -- a continuous flow of trains and cars -- a new Babel.

Change seems the only constant in this city; disappearance,
loss. Being is a shadow. There is nothing but this endless
flux. Nothing eternal, nothing sure.
10.

In the faces of strangers that anguished look of our times
which betrays itself beneath the smiles and courtesy --
which, increasingly, even children wear.

Each a shadow to the other, each with his own eyes fixed on
the ground in front of him, absorbed in his private world.
Spectators in a movie theater.

JACK
Sweet brother -- you who filled our
hearts with light -- who drew us
close, who made us one -- a family,
a home -- gone. Into the night
which has no dawn.

He stops, listens. The grey light of 4 television flickers on
the ceiling of a lonely apartment.. Somewhere a couple rage
and howl at each other.

Time lapse shots of tall buildings, with clouds passing above
them. Hallways. Offices at night. Walls.

JACK (CONT'D)

What was it. that you pointed to --
knew better than I? You overlooked
insult and injury. Were gentle,
kind --

Nothing adds up, or leads to anything else. He lives in
succession.

The shadows of passérsby on the street. A dry streambed. A
garden in winter, The stiff, dead stalks of sunflowers; their
heads bowed in defeat.

JACK (0.S.) (CONT'D)
Speakllet me hear -- see! Let it
not have been in vain! Sing with me
-- through me -- you, the true
artist -- lend me your strength!

‘Everything conspires to lead one to go on as before. To rest
in the tomb. To sleep.

The concrete banks of the L.A. river. Nature is dying.
Without nature, will the spirit die? The eye flits here and
there, like a frightened bird.

The others guess nothing of his condition, and he speaks not
a word. What would he say?

Fog from the beach. Faces, indistinct.
11.

MOTHER (0.S.)

I knew such things happened, but --
it seemed they wouldn't touch me. I
could have been with him ~-

Her voice fades out, and she is gone. In a moment of fantasy,
he finds himself swept along in a river. The waters rise,
threatening to engulf him.

Now he finds himself inside a burning house. Smoke slides in
under the door. Flames peel the paint from the ceiling. He
stuffs his fist in his mouth to keep from screaming. The
others neither speak nor act, as though they lay under some
spell or enchantment.

A stranger with a Walkman. A driver in Q traffic jam.

JACK (0.8.)
Losing you, I lost: my way

Physical life in a world abandoned by the spirit. Organized
unreality. The soul a hindrance in one's dealings here. A
burden. A mere quantity of thoughts and desires.

One is without form and void. Thousand-minded. At odds with
himself. A miscellany, not a man.

Cold public works. The city; the lost creation; the cosmos
become a Cave.

Travelers on a New York subway.
All await a new Creation. None knows how to bring it forth.

He finds himselF on an Orliner. It skims over the tops of
the trees, rising and falling, struggling to stay aloft. It
flies under power lines, narrowly avoids houses and apartment
buildings. The other passengers have gone to sleep, or pay no
attention.

The roar of the senses; loud, ever louder. Sensation becomes
substance. The false world so surrounds us that it taken the
place of nature.

This is a new death; death of the spirit, extinction of the
soul.

The supreme misery: to be cheated of the sight of essence: to
find oneself abandoned to the busy dance of things which pass
away.

What is despair but to lose the eternal?
12.

Forms dissolve like thoughts, like shapes in a waterfall.
Newspaper headlines. Fragments of TV shows. Swarming facts.

Walls, security lights, traffic. A dark, empty cathedral.

Where are you to find the spring and source of life? Will you
die before you do?

VOICE (0.S.)

Lead me from the unreal to.the real.
Lead me from darkness to light.
Lead me from death to eternal life.

To what end is nature? Is there nothing but this chaos, this
congeries of scraps and fragments? N ing, which binds them
together?

A new hell; entirely of our times; a glass box. The sky is
covered over. Man has shut himself in.

He must find a way out. He must journey through time, from
the outward and external to the heart of creation.

A solitary tree in the middle of a parking lot. A clock. A
closed door. A porch light. A lame man limping down the
street. The images follow on each other in quick succession.
The sound snaps in and out.

He finds himself on a high building. He leaps off the edge,
into thin air, without giving a thought to how he might
survive the fall. He wakes up with a gasp.

A figure stands near him. He cannot see its face, but he
feels a strange peace Flow into him; a sense of radiant love.
Who are you? Jack seemS 4» ask. Why can I not come to you?

The figure points towards a gate. Beyond it lies a field.
Trembling, Jack looks back towards the city.

Come out! the figure seems to say. There is that near you
which will guide you, if only you trust its lead.

The figure reaches out, touches the crown of Jack's head,
then is gone.

Jack looks around. Where to begin?

Night lifts off like a fog. The street lamps flicker out. The
morning star burns in a gap between the tall buildings --
solitary, unheeded -- a promise of that world which here is
but a legend.

You -- who are you? The star seems to address him.
13.

Beneath the artificial world, the true face of creation,
covered over, obscured, beckoning us still.

He closes his eyes. He would rather sleep than undertake the
necessary struggle. He awaits a command that has already been
given.

Let us sing a new song, tell a new story; one which, mindful
of the ancient tales, takes its inspiration from science,

Let us search for the permanent amid the fleeting and
mutable, for that which endures through the spectacle of
ceaseless change. Let us discover the eternal, the good.

Jack walks along the Santa Monica shore. Surfers bob up and
down. in the line-up. Children play in We tide. Their
laughter, their wild cries, take Inm back +o the past, to his
childhood and beyond it, to the world's owq -- to the first
light of creation.

At the edge of the city, he sees a tree. He reaches out to
touch it. The instant he does, the universe springs up from
its source.

THE CREATION

We show the growth of the cosmos, the great epic of
evolution, from the Big Bang through the long ages of
geological time, down to the present day.

We begin in the chaos or nothingness out of which space and
time arose -- in a r@alm beyond our power to imagine, without
form or coherence, void of here and now. Suddenly, like joy
replacing sadness and brooding, light breaks forth, and the
universe is born

Molecular clouds gather to make galaxies, which sail out
through the void like ships on a sea without shores. New
stars, new worlds are born and pass away, like wasted seed.
They are the furnaces in which the elements of our future
life are smelted. Many experiments must be tried and rejected
before our system is hit upon; much labor expended, with
continual improvements through the long ages.

At last the ancestral earth appears; a bulb of gases, more
like a star than a planet, seared by the sun's fire, glowing
like a coal from deep within.

The gases cool to liquid. A solid core falls out; a thin
crust forms. From time to time the vapors clear away to
reveal a mighty inferno of magma and pitch.
14.

The sky fills with steam. Rains fall for millennia, cooling
the surface by degrees. For ages there. is no clear day of
sun, no night of stars; only thunder and lightning. But by
and by the mists drift off, the clouds part and the first
land appears, a low island of meteoritic rubble and stark
volcanic stone.

With no plants to hold the land in place, wind and water
carve the stone into fantastic shapes. Shadows move
mathematically over the hills. The vast wastes wait for
nothing. Each day is like the last.

In the boiling waters of a hot spring, entities develop that
can maintain their integrity in thefage of disturbance from
without. They do not endure by maintaining their rigidity.
They are soft and yielding. They resist change by themselves
changing endlessly, like.a whirlpool, inventing variations on
themselves which protect them from injury and accident and
gradually create a world more favorable +0 their growth.

We cannot tell precisely when or how life begins. It comes
not as a unique event, at a precise stroke of the clock. The
first living things are simple thermophiles; odd, marginal
forms, neither plant nor animal, barely over the indefinable
line which separates the animate from the inanimate.

They drift in solitude through the vast, lifeless sea,
beneath the incandescent skies of a planet still racked by
volcanic eruptions and menaced by the impact of comets and
asteroids.

In areas protected from the wind, colonies of bacteria appear
as scums and muds, ‘tinting the shores along the water-
courses, like bathtub rings. They have no predators; death is
something yet unknown.

Microbial mats appear _at the edges of the tides. They in turn
give rise to stromatolites; hard, chalky knobs of rock,
shaped like cabbages or cauliflowers, the architecture of
generations of cyanobacteria living on top of each other,
like coral in a reef.

Bacteria that once preyed on each other learn gradually to
live in community. As such communities become hereditary, the
first cells with a nucleus arise. Together the bacteria
arrive at a result which none by itself could have achieved.

From the beginning, cooperation plays as great a part as
competition in the ascent of life. It succeeds where naked
power and selfishness do not, making the deadliest enemies
indispensable to each other's survival. The struggle for
existence is not life's sole or fundamental law.
is.

Slowly the bacteria creep inland, spreading over the volcanic
debris like a layer of felt. Plants, magic jewel boxes of
chlorophyll, soon abound. Instead of drawing nourishment from
their surroundings, they produce it for themselves,
transforming sunlight and carbon into living tissue.

Photosynthesis has made life self-sufficient, just at the
moment it was living on borrowed time, in danger of eating up
every particle of nourishment in the sea. Now life can
manufacture its own food -- no longer depend on getting it,
already made, from a source outside itself.

Some of the plants, lacking chlorophyll, find it easier to
prey on others than to manufacture ‘heir own nourishment from
lean water and sunlight. Thus the First animals arise; Life
robbing life; assassins.

Alien as they appear, they show the beginnings of need, of
purpose and will; the unmistakable marks Of identity, the
first true signs of self. Something new has taken root in
nature; something which is not driven by external forces but
set in motion from within,. prompted by itself and nothing
else.

Colonies of animals arise in which the functions of life are
cleverly divided. Multicellular creatures spread through the
seas using every foothold they can find to establish an
existence, no matter how narrow or constraining it might at
first appear.

We see the creation, not as an event in the distant past, the
result of a finished and forgotten act, but rather as
something which happens in every moment of time: no less a
miracle now, ths present hour, than it was in the beginning.

The film is like asteve, sifting the seed from the husk of
appearances, the changeless from the changing.

Volvox, sponges, sea fans, anemones, corals and jellyfish:
the creatures fill the newly hospitable waters in
inexhaustible numbers. There are no fish as yet; no crabs or
shrimp or lobster. And yet it’ is an age of unparalleled
opportunity; for the first time, now and never again, a world
free of competition. The wildest fancies are permitted;
anything can find a place. Bizarre beings spring up from the
sea's imagination, then vanish forever: Hallucingenia,
Opabinia, Anomalocaris.

Segmented worms appear, and after them the first vertebrates;
simple fish. Spines and jaws allow the vertebrates to leave
the sea floor, to give up grubbing in the mud for nourishment
in order to prey on larger creatures.
16.

Predators shape their prey, driving them to develop stronger
armor, greater dexterity and speed. Wondrous fact, that had
life not been compelled to face the threat of a violent
death, it might never have risen above the ooze.

Death comes as a late arrival to the creation, to give life a
greater capability and scope -- paradoxically, to make it
stronger and more lasting.

The light flashes at the water's surface above, beckoning us
higher. Algae spread up from the sea. Mosses and liverworts
appear. Here, on land, the plants need not contend for light.
They seem to rejoice in their new independence, to reach out
with the vigor of beings unexpectedly set free. By and by,
the hills are carpeted with a mat of diminutive green
vegetation.

Frost and lichens break down the rocks into a soil fit for
the more developed plants still waiting by the shore.

Horseshoe crabs come up onto the shore to lay their eggs. Sea
water, rich as beer, froths and foams around them. Where
before there was no sound of life, now we hear the faint,
familiar choir of insects. Millipedes forage on the mud
flats. Scorpions and ghost crabs come out of the surf to prey
on them. Silverfish follow, and soon winged relatives are in
evidence. With the power of flight, the insects can range far
and wide in search of food, scatter their seed and escape
their enemies, though as yet no enemy has appeared.

Is nature mere weather, doing and undoing without end? What
does it work toward? What purpose does it have in view?

Nothing stands still Or keeps its place. All is growth and
ceaseless unfolding. One force works in all, advancing
swiftly from form to form, never lingering in any single one,
forever rushing 09; Witnin all things, but not enclosed;
outside all, but not eycluded.

From time to time, lest we forget that we are sharing our
hero's perspective, we cuit back to Jack in the city, going
through the motions of his everyday life.

The first fishes with amphibian traits gain the shore. Swamp
and marshland have replaced the wide, windy plains of the
preceding ages. The forms of vegetation are simple, few.
There are no reeds or grasses. No flower breaks the gloom.
The earth is a vast, wet Eden. Except near the poles, there
are no seasons. Each year is like the last.

Reptiles emerge from the amphibians, and dinosaurs in turn
from the reptiles. Among the dinosaurs we discover the first
signs of maternal love, as the creatures learn to care for
each other.
17.

Is not love, too, a work of the creation? What should we have
been without it? How had things been then?

Silent as a shadow, consciousness has slipped into the world.

The plant kingdom, too, advances as the first seed plants
emerge: cycads, araucarias, conifers and gingkos. Exalting
music alternates with long stretches of peaceful sound; wind
and waves and summer crickets.

Nature seems everywhere to be leading toward’ something. Why
this delay in arriving at its ends? Why does it feel its way
along -- wander, dawdle, delay? Why twist and turn and
backtrack, as though it were finding its way through a maze?
Why establish hindrances and obstad@S only to put itself to
the trouble of devising stratagems for overcoming them?

Mammals peer out from their hiding places if the trees,
waiting for the cold of night to descend and reduce the
reptiles to inactivity. None is larger than a squirrel, few
larger than a mouse. They are a thin, precarious line --
inconspicuous in the general landscape, holding on against
great odds, in constant danger of being extinguished
altogether.

This is the fate that befalls the dinosaurs instead, as a
large asteroid slams into the earth, covering it for years in
a pall of dust. The plants die off; the larger reptiles
starve. For long years the earth lies fallow. Gradually the
mammals come forth to take up those niches which the
dinosaurs have left vacant.

Nature seems to waste and blunder cruelly. And yet, except
for this disaster, the dinosaurs might have dominated the
earth down tothe present day. How strange that calamity and
disease should lead life forward ~~ prove indispensable to
its unfolding -- that such grandeur should rise up froma
foundation of pain and death and ruin!

The ichneumon wasp, the crocodile, the shark -- to think that
they, too, were the fruit of long, painstaking labor and
calculation -- brought forth with an equal care! To think
that they now go patiently about their tasks, burning with a
life as real as ours!

Grasses and modern birds now make their appearance; soon
thereafter, the first primates. At last we come to man, the
triumph of the earth, paragon of creatures and miracle of
miracles. He walks with head aloft, his shoulders broad and
strong, his gaze fixed on the heavens, the crown and glory of
creation. .
18.

We suggest, in quick succession, the steps by which he moved
from a life of nomadic savagery to a settled, stable culture.

He tames the reindeer and the wild sheep. He thatches his
roof to keep out the shafts of rain. He draws furrows through
the earth and guides the water to his fields.

What a short time our race has occupied this globe, what a
late arrival we are after all -- a beginning -- creatures
more of the future than of the past! An unspeakably great
future it might be, and yet, though nature should be
sufficient to our wants, we have set ourselves against it,
and against each other.

Everything sings in the great chorus;each knows its place
and is happy. Man alone does not. i Even now we live in
the first day. The splendor of nature's © distant beginning

shines within us. Yet somehow we have lost our way.

Tares stand among the grain: bright red poppies, thistles and
thorns. The ravaged earth. The ruins of ancient cities. Great
walls thrown down by war. Dry, abandoned wells. The stone
head of some ancient god, buried to his neck in sand. A
temple engulfed by the sea.

Why does the world lie broken and in heaps? Where did it all
go wrong?

Our hero is left, if not quite where he was before,
nevertheless in-doubt and misgiving. He trusted nature to
answer his questions. It answers some but raises others in
turn.

We have lost the eternal ~~ within us and without. How did it
first come to pass? How does it happen even now, today, in
the life of each and all?

A ladder, leading up into a tree. A spring, running from a
rock. A rose.

How shall we recover the eternal which. increasingly we seek
for, without knowing how we should?

PART TWO

EXT. SHORE, HOUSE, BRIDGE, GATE, SPARKS, ETC. - BOMARZO,
COLLODI, BAGNAIA, ETC. - STARLINGS

Fast, wide-angle shots; the tempo quick and lively after the
adagio of nature.
19.

A shore. Beyond it a dark, unbounded plain. Figures in the
mist. Souls, as yet unborn. Children,-of all races, five or
six years old. Before them stands a burning lamp.

They press towards it, each holding a candle which he lights
at the source. One by one, cupping the flame, they go out of
the darkness.

An ancient garden, enclosed by a wall. A peacock. Water flows
from the mouth of a gargoyle in the center of the garden and
runs down into a pool. They drink from it.

They pass through a gate. Cross a bridge.
EXT. TUNNEL, CAVE, BOOK, MEASURING STICK - ICELAND

The souls keep close together. Presently, OMe comes forward
from among the rest: a boy. Helpers -- we C@nnot see their
faces -- whisper in his ear. One motions him to come towards
a door. He hesitates.

A woman in a bridal gown, her face covered by a veil, shows
him her wedding ring; a field of sunflowers; gives him a tiny
book which he must eat.

EXT. TREES, PORCH LIGHT, RIVER, POV COMING OUT OF CAVE

In quick cuts, the child looks back at the house from which
he came. Already it seems far away.

He sees the porch light of his future home. Moths hover about
the yellow lamp. Dust floats up from their wings.

A figure whispers in his e@or - A hand motions him forward. Now
he stands by a Wide riv@r His POV, as though from a boat
coming out of the darkness of a sea-cave, into the light.

EXT. O'BRIEN HOUSE

We return to the opening of the movie: to the tall oak tree
in front of the O'Brien's house.

A thousand ages to lay down a bed of mud, a thousand more to
shape a leaf or build a tree -- and all this labor to prepare
a living soul!

The soul: the crown and apex of creation: the self, the
center and inside of nature. Great not in space and time, but
in capacity, in depth and power of apprehension. Where does
it come from? When is it first born? How does it advance?
Towards what?

How does it happen that I am I, and you are you?
20.

The slow, dark birth of the soul -- greater, more mysterious
than the birth of worlds.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

A darkened house. The night throbs with crickets. A moonlit
window. A curtain whispers over the sash. A visitor. A sound
of thrashing cloth.

CULDOSCOPY — EMBRYO - WARM, LOVING MUSIC

The first signs of life: the punctum saliens, the heart's
germ and precursor, beating in sharp throbs. Systole,
diastole. Slowly the fetus grows, coheres. Feet, eyes,
fingernails. Nature, so prodigal with wonders outside us, has
placed the greatest within.

A boy. Fed by his mother's blood, he sleeps in the warm night
of her body.

Tight on his ear, listening to the sounds of the world
beyond. Somewhere there is laughter. Bells are ringing. Still
he drowses.

INT. SUBMERGED ROOM - SPECIAL SET —- LIT FLOOR LAMP, .ETC.

The water's surface beckons. Loving voices whisper
encouragement to him. What world lies up there -- unguessed,
unseen? Slowly, he rises towards it. His hand feels here and
there, pushes at a door, taps -- tap, tap --

The womb -- that s@nctuary where all his wants were known and
answered -- has become a prison, a tomb. He mist break out,
whatever the cost. He can delay no longer. Forward, out of
the night to the Land of days!

BIRTH - FIRST HUMAN SOUNDS - FIRST BREATH

His mother gasps, brave against the pain. There are beads of
perspiration on her lips. At last the child bursts forth in a
gush of blood. He draws his first breath. His cries are mixed
with hers. .

BABY'S POVS ~- MOTHER'S SMILE, HANDS, ETC.

His mother's smile: the first thing he perceives. It covers
him with light. She is goodness, peace, the fountain of life:
hers is the very breath of paradise. Wordlessly, she speaks
with his soul. He cannot tell where she leaves off and he
begins. From.the beginning she ignores her interests and
convenience to serve his.
21.

But who is this -- his father? Their relation is not as
clear. Mr. O'Brien looks at his wife as the child is passed
into his arms. Tears of joy sting his eyes. What have we
done? he seems to ask.

The child has awakened from out of nothing, risen from the
uncomprehending dust. Why now? Not earlier, or a thousand
years hence?

He looks with a heart of trust. No care assaults him that his
mother cannot answer; no pain, no troubling need. Her touch
puts fear to flight. A perfect love surrounds him. Father and
mother speak as one. He lives in a world free of
contradiction.

Colors, shapes, curious sounds: at first oothing coheres.
Then, little by little, things assume @ sense. Letter by
letter, he spells them out. What new dreQm is this?

She looks at him in wonder. His ear, like a sea-shell fresh
from the surf; his hands and arms and mouth, trembling from
time to time as though in fear.

O that world that death knew not!

He grasps his mother's finger. Her hands cup his feet. The
world is bound by her smile. The sun is a toy.

INT. O'BRIEN BEDROOM - INFANCY - MUSIC [2B]

She looks at him in his crib. He shouts with delight.
Everything runs togéther; a blur, a dream. He holds his hand
close to his face. The lights on the tree in the living room
shine red, green and blue. His father plays the piano.

She leans down OVer him. All blessing, nourishment, beauty
proceed from her. The promise of deep joy!

Outside, the oak tree throbs with cicadas. A sprinkler ticks
back and forth.

FLOWERS, ANIMALS, BOYS - FORCED PERSPECTIVE SET

Everything is bigger and more animated later it will appear.
Things speak with him directly. A dragonfly looks at him,
then darts on. At night the curious moon peers in through his
window. Mother, come! Where am I now?

JACK
Momma!
22.

A ball rolls ahead of him. He cannot close his hands around
it. He reaches in.a bucket of minnows. The little fish sing
as they run from his hand.

His mother watches as he takes his first steps. She feels a
pinprick in her chest, a pinch: to see his first attempt at
independence, freedom, detachment.

He chases the sky. Hé wraps himself in skirts of light. He
laughs with delight as she catches him up into her arms.

The table walks, the faucet sings. His happiness in infinite.

But in a picture from the story book -- the crocodile pulls
on the elephant by his nose. Why? Why does he do that?

HIS FATHER ~ MUSIC
He touches his father's beard.

FATHER
Sandpaper!

His father takes a coin out of his ear. How?

He sits him on his knee and play Horse. Brrumpphh! Up and
down they go. He shrieks with delight.

The neighbors have come by. Mr. Bigden makes big faces. The
grown-ups are heroes and giants in the earth.

FATHER (CONT'D)
we had +he Commander over for
dinner -- his little devil bit him
on 4he ankle!

INT. HALL - MUSIC

He wants to go down the dark hall, but he is afraid to by
himself. He turns to his mother. She understands, comes
forward to take his hand. Overhead, the ceiling opens as the
attic fan clicks on. :

EXT. FRONT PORCH, OTHER INFANT POVS

He picks the neighbors' tulips and brings them to her in a
wagon.

MOTHER
Oh, sweetheart! They belong to our
neighbors! But you're very sweet to
bring them to your mother. Yes, you
arel
23.

She does not frown or scold him. She kisses the bottoms of
his feet. She bends over and blows on his tummy to make him
laugh. She slips him into his PJs. Lying near her heart,
hearing its faint thud, he knows peace.

Their attunement grows. They are wrapped together like two
vines. One in soul. Still.

He throws his bottle on the floor. Patiently she fetches it
again. She sets two colored balls in front of him. He touches
them, and they roll away, as though with a life of their own.

Clouds, grass, sun, water, flower: the world is a rebus.
Wordiessly, it speaks with him --

INT. CRIB - NEW CHILD - WINDOW

A crib stands in front of a bright window, A new child lies
in it; his brother RL.

How friendly the universe looks to his mother now! A gift
from the light! How kind the divinity who favored her this
way!

She is born at the same time as her children. She learns from
their laughter. She grows. up with them.

She whispers a blessing.

Jack looks at his new brother. At: first he does not share his
mother's pleasure. When will it do something? Will it go. back
to the hospital?
. JACK
Baby night night!

He hears the baby's shouts of joy, its squeals and warbles of
delight. Now he must share her love. She holds it instead.

TIGHT ON BOOK OF ANIMALS

Lion, tiger, dog, bird: he names the creatures. She shows
them to him in a book, and he names them one by one.

Baby blocks. Letters shaped into new combinations. The world
assumes a sense, moves towards a design.

EXT. FRONT YARD -— MOVING OUTDOORS FOR THE FIRST TIME
Mother and father plant a sweetgum tree to mark the new

baby's birth. They take his picture next to it. The tree's
growth will serve as a measure of. the children's own.
24.

Far away a bell rings. He rushes out to look for the ice
cream truck. His grandmother calls him away from the street.
She looks for him, she cannot find him. He understands that
he can hide from her. The tension is too great:

JACK
Here's me!

We move in widening circles, farther and farther away from
his first, familiar world.

UNDERWATER SHOT (SWIMMING POOL)

Weightless, he bounces through the shallow end of a swimming
pool, his feet pushing off the bottom.

MOTHER
Hold your nose! Not out in the
deep!

INT. PARENTS' BEDROOM

He sneaks into his parents' bedroom. In a chest of drawers,
he discovers his father's campaign ribbons, a commendation
from the admiral, scapulars from the Sisters of St. Anne,
Chinese money in fantastic denominations. He marvels at the
mystery of their separate lives.

Suddenly, he hears a noise. He turns to discover his mother
in the doorway.

1 MOTHER
Ther@S where we keep our things,
sweetheart. Leave those alone. All
ci ght?

He nods. She overlooks his faults, his fits of willfulness
and temper. The music babhes all things in love.

EXT. FIRST SNOW

He reaches out to feel his first snow. She stands behind him
smiles.

ANOTHER DAY - STEVE
He turns around at the sound of a baby's cry.

JACK
Where's his momma?

MOTHER
He's your new brother.
25.

JACK
How many of them will there be?

On closer examination he finds the child fascinating. He
touches it, strokes its skin.

EXT. THE CHOW DOG - DUSK

He fears a dog that lives down the street with Howard and
Rusty Wells, two neighbors the boys' own age; a chow with a
purple tongue and a curling tail. There is a menace in its
eyes. The instant it appears, panic enters his blood. His
mother feels him clutch her hand more tightly, as though he
understood that he were small and vulnerable. She gives him a
look to say: I will protect you.

INT. O'BRIEN HOUSE - THE NEW BABYS CRIT®

Jack wants to stroke the new baby, then to pour a glass of
water on him. A glance from his mother restrains him.

EXT. THE STICKLEYS' - A PROPERTY LINE

Next door, across a vacant lot teeming with snakes and
lizards, stands a dilapidated house. No one has ever seen the
owners come in or go out.

FATHER
Stay away. Don't bother them.
That's the Stickleys' property.
Starting at this line.

He looks at the ground, but where the vacant lot leaves off
and the Stickleys’ yard begins, he cannot tell and does not
care.

JACK'S POVS

His parents. guard him carefully from the sight of anything
which might disturb him. One day, when he sees a man rolling
wildly on the ground, his mother puts her hands over his
eyes. Sweeping him up into her arms, she carries him away.

He looks at her with a frown. What was in that man?

Bath time. Fear is forgotten. The boys make no effort to
cover their nakedness.

Everything is pure and without blemish. All quarrels are
hidden from his eyes; all sickness, suffering and death. He
knows what Adam did.
26.

CUT, MERTHIOLATE, SPINNING ON THE GRASS, SPINNING FAN

He hears his mother singing in the kitchen.

She catches him by the hands and’spins him round and round,
until he is so dizzy he can no longer stand up, but stumbles
around drunkenly until he sinks down in the grass.

The whirling fan. Water from the hose. He loves all that
flows.

The 4th of July: a sparkler makes figures in the night.
Laughter is the dominant tone of thig section. Knowledge is
delight. Sorrow is a passing thing. All glows from deep

within.

He falls and cuts his knee. It hurts when she puts on the
drops, but then she blows the pain away.

MOTHER
All right .now?

He laughs. With the touch of her hand, she restores him to
peace.

SOAP BUBBLES

He blows soap bubbles into. the air; wondrous, iridescent.
They drift off and are gone. Delight does not last.

Gradually, the subte radiance passes from things, as though
a layer of cloud had come over the sun. Slowly as the dawn,
the boy is growing up. Music helps to indicate this change.

Something violent and unfamiliar disturbs him when he sees
his mother paying te much attention to his little brother.

Gradually the world enters his life. Little by little, he
will come to set great store by things he never dreamt of
before.

He snatches a toy away from RL.

JACK
Mine!

JACK'S POVS

RL sees a cat:
27.

RL
Is he scared of kids? What does he
do to kids? Does he lick kids?

LAMP

Jack knocks over a lamp. It falls to the floor and breaks.
His mother enters the room.

MOTHER
Did you do this? Were you boys
horsing around?
(Jack nods)
You always tell the truth. You're a
good boy. Be more careful next
time.

CRAYON DRAWING

She compliments RL on a drawing he has done. Jack puts his
own aside. Already RL is the better artist.

JACK
Who .do you love most?

MOTHER
I love you all the same.

JACK
All three?
(she nods)
Can I tell you something he did?

MOTHER
“Would he mind your telling me?

So fine a scruple had not occurred to him. He learns from her
the subtle ways of honor, truth.

The supreme joy that life can offer is to see her pleased, as
when one does well in school, or tells the truth.

EXT. O'BRIEN HOUSE (FRONT YARD)

When some of the neighborhood kids push RL into a puddle,
Jack rushes at them with a stick and puts them to flight.

JACK
Clear out!

He flings rocks at the retreating figures. RL looks at him
gratefully. As they go back to the house, he puts his arm
around his big brother's waist. Music enters.
28.

EXT. O'BRIEN HOUSE (BACKYARD) - MUSIC - DUSK

The family is sitting out on the back terrace. Chicken is
cooking in the smoker. She takes RL up into her arms and
points toward the horizon. The sun has just set; the sky is a
furnace of light.

MOTHER
That's where God lives.

THE OTHER WORLD ~ MUSIC

The world is not yet something completely known and real. It
continues to seem as though some nook or passageway might
give them access to another land. One might pry up a
floorboard, or at the back of the close discover some
unsuspected room.

That other world: where does it lie? Inside the walls, in the
crawl space underneath the house: who might live there? He
gets down on his knees. and looks through a vent. He peers
into a far corner of the attic.

Within his world it seems there is another world; a nest of
worlds.

INT. BOYS' ROOM - NIGHT

Night has fallen. Mrs. O'Brien sits by the baby's crib and
sings a lullaby.

MOTHER
Bye; baby bunting, Daddy's gone a-
hunting, to get a little rabbit
skin

She kisses RL goodnight- She shuts out the light. The fan
turns back and forth.In their young hearts, she is the name
for God.

JACK
Leave it on.

The tiny nightlight watches over their sleep, burning evenly
through the long hours until morning.

In the moonlight the bushes assume a tropical size; the
leaves are painted silver. You would think the moon had
chosen where to shine.

Mrs. O'Brien comes back to give RL an aspirin crushed in a
spoonful of molasses.
29.

RL
What's that noise?

MOTHER
Nothing.

RL

Can you push the chest of drawers
against the wall?

There is a narrow crack between them. What might slide in
through it? Jack feels lean and alone in the vast palace of
the night.

MOTHER
Now sleep -- like good boys.

The shadows dance on the ceiling. tt is ‘hough they were
alive. Strange faces peer out at them from the darkness.
Nothing stands still. Things come and go, ebb and flow.

STEVE (0.S.)
Why does the moon follow me?

No sooner has she left the room, than the boys are up and
about. They bounce on their beds. They inspect the glowing
tubes in the back of the radio. They take voyages under the
sheets and blankets. They hold a flashlight underneath their
faces.

NEW ANGLE

When their mother com@s in later, she at first cannot locate
them. One child is under his bed, another sleeping on the
floor. She lifts +hem up, and puts them back in their places,
kisses them and closes the door.

Light shines through the keyhole. His infancy has passed
away, as though in a single day. His innocence is ended.

INT. BOYS' ROOM - FIVE YEARS LATER [2C]

Jack wakes up. All is as it was before. Where was he? The
sweetgum tree that was planted at his brother's birth marks
the passage of five years.

His eyes until now have been shielded from the sight of evil,
suffering and death; his family united, with no hint of
contradiction between his mother and father.

The world coheres. Things assume their conventional names and
take their customary places. We settle into the main epoch of
the story.
30.

Jack is now 11 years old, in 6th grade, his brothers 9 and 6.
RL is a gentle boy, loved by all, quiet and generous, with a
good sense of humor. Steve is combative, wild, but brave and
loyal, too. A title card reads: "TEXAS, 1956".

Where before we kept entirely to the family's house, we now
shall venture farther and farther into the neighborhood and
eventually out into the town in central Texas where they
live, far from the world at large.

The neighbors' yards are shaded by oak trees and surrounded
by low hedges that the children have cut gaps through. The
O'Brien house stands with five or six others on the last
street in a subdivision. Its front is turned towards the
other houses. Behind it lie the open woods: rolling hills of
juniper, broken here and there by Cow pastures.

EXT. NEIGHBORS' LAWNS - SIMPLER TIMES

Now that the heat of the afternoon is past, the neighbors lay
their hoses out. The sprinklers start up with a cough.
Standing with their sleeves rolled up, the men regard them
gravely, each adjusting his faucet until the water falls
precisely to the lawn's perimeter.

Rapt as a bird, Jack watches the sprinklers spin round and
round, until he hears his mother calling him home.

INT. O'BRIEN HOUSE

She is preparing dinner. She notices that the children have
grown steadily more quiet and watchful.

- MOTHER
Did you swepthe patio, honey? Did
you gebyour room?

The boys go quickly about their chores. They sweep up the
patio and wet it down with a hose to make it look fresh. They
pull up a few handfuls of. crab grass and leave them in a
conspicuous place. Then, in the distance, they see a green
Studebaker approaching.

NEW ANGLE
The tires hiss on the concrete. The boys are still and

expectant. A moment later their father steps through the
front door.

FATHER
Hi, sweetheart! Boys!
31.

He kisses their mother and turns to face them. They do not
know quite how to act with him. He catches them up into his
arms -- physically shows them every sign of affection -- but
they are wary of him and hold themselves apart. They
understand that he is devoted to them. He would never abandon

them, no, but always protect them. Still they do not trust
him.

He pours himself a shot of rye, passes the glass back and
forth under his nose, then tosses it down. As soon as his
back is turned, the boys slip away.

FATHER (CONT'D)
Wait a minute!

EXT. O'BRIEN HOUSE - LAWN

He shows Jack a patch of their lawn tnat ‘5 overrun with crab
grass and burrs.

FATHER

Did you pick the weeds along the
side of the house? Or only where I
could see?

(Jack shakes his

head)
They're back again. You need to
pull them up by the roots. You
can't just yank off the tops.

He shows Jack what he means. To the child it seems the weeds
must run off to tk nd of the earth; a labor beyond his
strength.

INT. DINING ROOM

The boys look at each Other from underneath their eyes as
their father says grace.

FATHER
Lord, bless this house, and all
those who live within it. Bless
this food to our use, and us to thy
loving and faithful service, and
make us ever mindful of the needs
of others. Amen.

Dinner is a nervous time, often a little hell. A symphony is
playing on the record player. From time to time Mr. O'Brien
leaps up from the table to conduct a 2 passage that has
inspired him.
32.

 

STEVE

Am I dreaming?
JACK

Pass the butter, please.
FATHER

“Pass the butter, please, Sir."
JACK

Sir.
FATHER

So, what did you do today 2
JACK

Went to school.
FATHER

After that.
JACK

Nothing.
FATHER

Did you practice your piano?
Jack studies the beads of moisture on his aluminum glass.

FATHER (CONT'D)
What about the yard?

. JACK
I picked where you told me to.
FATHER
Did you Put in more runners?
JACK
Uh huh.
FATHER
"Yes, Sir." It didn't look like it.
We'll see.

The boys regard him warily. His sharp, sarcastic words, and
orders so irrational he hardly expects that they will be
obeyed.

He never asks what they did at school. He does not know the
names of their friends. Were he to inquire, they would
suspect it was a trap.
33.

The boys bolt down their food. A shadow passes over Jack's
eyes as RL is taken to task. His mother sees this and reaches
out to caress his hair. The little knot of anger melts away.

The
and

She
it;

FATHER (CONT'D)
You like that blouse on your
mother?

RL
Yes, sir.

FATHER
I got it for her in Saltillo. The
same blouse here would cost $40.

RL
Nice.

FATHER

(to Mrs. O'Brien)
I got an urgent message from
Tampico. There's a fellow down
there who wants to consult with me.
He wants to take me fishing on his
yacht and get my advice. I told him
I was too busy.

MOTHER
Mr. Reese liked Jack's book report
and said he wanted him to build a
model. He offered to come over and
hel

music has distracted Mr, o'Brien. He leaps from his chair
turns up the volume.

FATHER .
What's that playing, sweetheart? It
starts with a "B".

shakes her head. His wild energy sweeps all things before
he seldom waits for an answer.

FATHER (CONT'D)
What's my favorite food?

MOTHER
Lamb? Fresh peas?

FATHER
No, no! Keep on!
34.

. MOTHER
Rice?

FATHER
Right! Okay, start from there. B-R-

She offers no guess. He frowns. Is she defying him?

FATHER (CONT'D)
Brahms! Brahms!

He conducts the music with passionate gestures. He points to
the photographs of Toscanini on the record jacket. Sometimes
he acts so like a child that the children themselves are
embarrassed.

Seeing the look of cold anger in Jack's eyes, he-comes over
and kisses him. He knows the boys do not like being kissed.
He does it anyway; partly, they suspect, for that very
reason.

FATHER (CONT'D)
He wrote this in 1883. Everyone
told him he was finished, that he
would never write a decent piece of
music again, so he worked hard and
went off in a park -- and sat under
a tree. And he saw a deer running
under the trees, and it gave him
the idea.

The boys eye each other. Everyone knows that he is lying.
Doesn't he care?.

ATHER (CONT'D)
1 read an article about it.

INT. KITCHEN

After dinner, the children scrape their plates and leave them
in the sink to soak. They waste no time getting out of the
house. They run, afraid that he might call them back.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD

The boys clasp each other by the wrists and spin each other
round and round, until they are so dizzy that their knees
buckle and they fall down in the grass.

RL
Another thing you can do -- press
down on the top of your head this
way -- then you grow!
35.

They practice heroic, diving catches.

STEVE
Tie me to a tree! Nobody help!
(once this is
done)
Help! Help!

Eventually, RL comes back and unties him.

RL squeezes the trunk of the tree. He feels it rock back and
forth in his arms -- knows the savage life beneath its bark.

They string words together to make A Magic formula that can
cause them to vanish into thin air.

RL
Caleecha Makeecha!

LATER

Fireflies appear beneath the branches. Frogs flop in the
cold, drowned grass. The boys wrest the iron lid off the
water meter. Beneath it, a toad sits still as a stone.

Against the darkening sky, somewhere beyond the horizon, they
begin to make out the red lights of a radio tower.

Jack and RL go looking for the Bates boys. Steve calls out to
them to wait up. He wants to come along, too. Jack shakes his
head. He will only slow them down.

JACK
Go back and wait on the porch.
Count to Fifty, then you come.

RL
Let hiw Come.

Jack considers the request. Maybe they could lure him into a
trap or push him off the roof. Steve will do anything they
ask of him.

STEVE
Am I dreaming?

JACK
Come on!
36.

GAMES

The splash a big rock makes when it plunges into the water!
The pleasure of destroying an ant mound! The burn of a rope
racing through your hands!

They play Annie Annie Over with Harry and Joe Bates. Cayler,
the kid from Oak Ridge Lane, drifts over. Others follow.

HARRY
You're skinny.

CAYLER
So what?

HARRY

People say I'm short.

They mount their bicycles and skid on +he slick parts of the
street. Traffic is episodic in this part of town.

Howard Wells appears, a gaunt child who lives in the last
house on the block, where the road turns to gravel.

They smoke a vine.

They cut across lawns and through flower beds. Fences mean
nothing to them; they make no distinctions of property. They
play without permission wherever they choose.

THE STICKLEYS' HOUSE - DUSK

They look through Q gate at the Stickleys' house. Even after
dark no light burns Bithia it. The boys suspect the occupants
must be very peculiar, or have something to hide.

HOWARD
They were here before anybody else
moved in. Nobody's ever seen ‘em!

JACK
They wouldn't mind a visitor,
Howard.

CAYLER

Maybe you should drop in.

RL
They've been waiting for you!

Howard yelps as they push him towards the gate. They laugh
and run away.
37.

KIDS
Not It! Not It!

They know the other world in their play. It calls to them,
summons them. It seems to want them to find it.

They run through the sprinklers, to feel the water splash up
under their chins.

They throw a baseball back and forth over the roof until they
can barely see it against the darkening sky.

They play Kick-the-Can. They are out where the pavement ends
and the new houses are going up, when +hey begin to hear
their mothers' voices.

MRS. BATES (0.5)
Harry! Joe!

The other children drift away; first the Bates boys, then
Cayler. Finally only Howard Wells is left.

MOTHER (0.S.)
RL! Stevie!

Her lovely voice floats on the evening air.

JACK
We've got to go, Howard.

HOWARD
We Caq still play on the porch.

He seems reluctant to leav@- He hangs around, as though he
had nowhere elg to play:

RL
Your mom doesn't care what time you
get home? You're lucky.

Howard shrugs. Maybe so.

JACK
We've got to go.

Howard gives them a blank, haunted look. Then, without saying
a word, he turns and heads home.

The boys can barely make their mother's figure out where she
stands by the porch light in the gathering darkness. How
pleasant to defy her -- to pretend you have not heard -- to
dissolve into the night, where even the dogs are blind.
38.

MOTHER (0.S.)
Come in!

They race around in the dark, making noises. The wind rushes
past them. It still wants to play.

STEVE
Scorpions! Scorpion dance!

They dance around, to keep the scorpions who come up onto the
warm patio at dusk from stinging them -- leaping about like
dervishes, spinning, shrieking with laughter and fear. To be
dissolved into something greater, to know a more: this is
happiness. :

MOTHER ,
Come in right now, you little
potlickers!

A boy named Robert watches from the distance.
INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

They slip quietly toward their bedroom, hoping to avoid their
father, who sits bya gooseneck lamp reading the paper.

FATHER
Son? Come here. Reach me my
lighter.

He could as easily reach it himself. It seems he wants to
harass the child, +o demonstrate his authority. Jack glances
at his mother, who leoks at the ground as soon as she meets
his eyes.

' JACK
can't you reach it?

His father does not answer. Jack goes over, picks up the
lighter, gives it to him and starts off toward the bedroom.

FATHER
Haven't you forgotten something?

He points to his cheek. The child comes over and gives him a
kiss goodnight.

FATHER (CONT'D)
Is that all I get?

Jack kisses him again, coldly, and gives him a hug.
39.

FATHER (CONT'D)
You love your father?

JACK
Yes, sir.

FATHER
Good.

INT. BOYS' ROOM

Jack says goodnight to the rocks in his rock collection. He
whispers their names: apatite, chalcedony, azurite, obsidian.

RL (0.8
-+-and please don't let aay
catastrophes happen while “rim still
alive. Amen.

JACK'S POV ON HIS FATHER - NIGHT

Mr. O'Brien has gone into the living room to play the piano.
Jack watches him through a crack in the door.

Their father is an accomplished musician. Their home is never
more friendly and at peace than when he sits at the piano,
playing Bach or Chopin.

INT. BOYS' ROOM ~ DAY

Day streams through the windows. The sparrows fuss underneath
the eaves.

MOTHER
‘The laziest boys I've ever seen!

She reaches under the covers and tickles their feet. When
this does not work, she comes back with a tray of ice cubes
wrapped in a dish towel and lays it against their backs.

RL
No fair!

Jack looks outside. The Studebaker is gone. There is laughter
in the kitchen.

JACK
Stevie!

They call to their little brother. When he comes running down
the hall, they jerk a rope they have concealed in a seam of
the carpet, and he goes sprawling.
40.

He is silent for a moment, then gets up quickly, laughing.
Shep races around in mad excitement.

MOTHER
Hurry, or you'll be late!

RL
Mom? Every night do you grow? Mom --
suppose somebody steals our
clothes?

MOTHER
Then you'll just have to run home
bare-naked!

She pats him on the cheek. He is the gentlest of the boys.
When he was an infant, he only want@d +p sit on her lap. Jack
suspects that he might be her favorite.

EXT. WACO STREET
Jack and RL run to school.
EXT. SCHOOL

They part reluctantly as the first bell rings. No school
friend can take a brother's place.

INT. FIFTH-GRADE CLASSROOM

Jack's teacher, Mr. Reese, is a dapper man with a high voice
and a Clark Gable moustache. Jack glances around nervously.

He has trouble keeping his mind on the lessons; trouble, too,
getting along with the other children. He does not know why.

There is a prety) freckled girl whom he would particularly
like to make ag impression on. Her name is Marsha. She is
graceful, with long brown hair. Her smile leaves him
pleasantly confused.

He listens in rapture as Marsha stands in front of the whole
class and sings, "Once I Had a Secret Love."

BOY (0.S-)
She's nice and stuff. I put a roach
in her desk.

When he comes upon her alone in. the hall -- the opportunity
he has been waiting for -- his heart comes to his throat, and
he walks past her without saying a word.
Al.

EXT. DOWNTOWN STREET - LAME MAN

One afternoon with his mother, Jack sees a lame man hobbling
along the sidewalk.

He watches in pity and horror as the man limps away. That
shape could be his. Nothing that he knows or possesses could
defend him. It might happen at any moment. Without rhyme or
reason. It might be right around the corner, or come up from
behind.

He turns to his mother:

JACK .
Is this a rare thing? Can it happen
to anyone?

She looks at him, nods. A trouble comes into his mind. He
does not know the cause.

She can make hurt and fear go away. But sickness? What if one
of them got sick? What if she herself did?

He remembers a man in the barber shop with one shoe bigger
than the other. What. did it hide, that big shoe?

INT. LIVING ROOM ~ GRANDMOTHER

Some days afterwards his grandmother is visiting. Her bright
spirits do not distract him from noticing her arthritic
hands, the veins in her arms, her bunioned feet projecting
off the end of the ttoman. Again, he feels a strange pity,
that is mixed with Q Certain horror, too. Is this his fate?
His mother's? why does M0 one speak of what haunts him? He
cannot believe dhat he might die, or ever lie in the grave.
No, death does not apply to him. His mother reassures him:

MOTHER
We all get old. It's nothing to be
frightened of.

JACK
Like that? Will you?
(she nods)
Will 1?
MOTHER

Everyone. Look at Shep!

He remembers Austin, the skinny boy who could not stop
pacing. He remembers a woman shouting at her boyfriend on a
downtown street, and a crazy woman who called him over to see
a baby carriage with a doll stretched out in it.
42.

It seems there are things he can no longer escape with a leap
into her lap. The world is a burning house.

And still her smile quickly cheers him. He forgets what he
saw

GRANDMOTHER

You let these kids run wild.
MOTHER

They're so curious, Mom -- so

anxious to learn. I spend most of
my time trying to stop fights
between them. What a full
They're like wild horses.

GRANDMOTHER .
No discipline. There's the biggest
change in those boys when heir dad
comes home! Little devils!

(to Steve)
I know you!

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DDT TRUCK

STEVE
The DDT truck!

Already other kids are running behind the truck which
periodically passes through the neighborhood to spray for
mosquitoes. Jack and RL laugh and shout and wave their arms,
running joyfully-in and out of the cloud of insecticide. The
driver laughs and woves as though he were driving an ice-
cream truck. Howard dees ot look at’ Jack when he asks:

HOWARD
You want to spend the night at my
house?

EXT. WELLS' HOUSE - DUSK

Howard leads Jack towards his house. In the fading light it
appears oddly: solitary. No light shines from within.

INT. WELLS' HOUSE

Jack had looked forward to coming here. But his heart sinks
as he enters the house for the first time. The heavy drapes
are drawn tight shut. One breathes an atmosphere of sorrow,
an air of insufferable gloom. The mere contemplation of the
dark Spanish furniture, the mounted antelope heads and limp,
dusty magazines unnerves him.
43.

There are stacks of old papers here and there. Cardboard
boxes stand in the corner, yet unpacked. The living room is
like an attic; the lights are dim, and the lampshades yellow
with age. There are withered roses in a vase.-.No life here,
only a memory of life.

Howard is shy enough when they are playing, but now he seems
especially silent and afraid. He looks around anxiously for
some game to play.

Mrs. Wells knocks things over in the kitchen,’ weaving as she
prepares their dinner. She wears a bathrobe. Jack does not
get a clear look at her.

HOWARD .
She said we could do anydhin we
want.

They walk on a table. They drink pop and play with knives.
Howard even throws a knife into the back of a door.

JACK
Where's your dad, Howard?

Howard makes a gesture as though to say: He just took off!
Went! Jack sees that Mrs. Wells is in her bedclothes, though
it is not time for bed. He turns to Howard, who looks away.
He gazes at Mrs. Wells with astonishment and dread. He is
careful to spare Howard's feelings and smiles awkwardly.

A few minutes later, he asks Howard if he can use the phone.
Howard nods. Jack calls his mother. He takes care to speak
softly. Howard iS Standing nearby but, with an exquisite
consideration, be turns away.

JACK (CONT'D)
Mother, Can I come home?

MOTHER (0.S8.)
What's the matter, hon?

JACK
Nothing. I can walk.

Howard does not seem surprised. He makes no protest.
Jack shakes his hand, in an awkward effort to reassure him of

his friendship. Rusty peers out of his room at the older
boys. He has been quiet the whole time.
44,

EXT. WELLS HOUSE - DUSK

Jack goes home, dragging his blanket behind him. The Wellis'
chow dog watches but does not chase him. The unhappy house
looms in the background as the whistle of a distant train
pierces the stillness.

INT. O'BRIEN HOUSE - NIGHT
Jack throws himself into his mother's arms.
JACK

There's nothing like that, is

there?
She frowns. He cannot tell her what is disturbing him. Things
no longer speak with one voice. He has descended into the
world of duality.
INT. BOYS' ROOM
That night his mother says a prayer by their beds; a rare

occurrence. While she hears their prayers, she does not often
join in them. They glance at each other.

JACK
Mother, which one of us do you love
most?

MOTHER

I love you all three the same.

JACK
But ~~ we don't care -- who most?

She laughs and kisseS RL's feet.

JACK (CONT'D)
How can you do that? It's

disgusting.

MOTHER
Well, I'm sorry. His feet were
cold.

JACK

Yeah, but you don't kiss them!
RL teases his brother with a glance.
She reads the story of Peter Rabbit to the younger boys. She

has done so a hundred times before. It is the only story they
ask to hear.
45.

MOTHER
"\...But don't go into Mr.
MacGregor's garden. Your father had
an accident there; he was put in a
pie by Mrs. MacGregor."

Now only Jack is still awake.

MOTHER (CONT'D)
What's you favorite part of school?

JACK |
Lunch.

She looks at RL who lies nearby.

MOTHER
You love your little brother, don't
you?

JACK
Uh huh. I don't know how far he'll
get.

MOTHER

What do you mean?

JACK
When we're out in the woods, he
just likes to gawk at the fish. And
sometimes --

MOTHER
What?

JACK

--~ he. doesn't stick up for himself,
or hit back. What's going to happen
to him?

(she smiles)
You can talk him out of his money
or whatever he has in his pocket.
He kept a dead minnow in his
wallet. Just thinking about it
makes me want to throw up. I'm not
kidding.

She laughs. At the same time, it troubles her to see the
first signs of self in him. She knows the way this road must
lead.
46.

Whether it be his grandmother, or Mrs. Wells in her draped
rooms, or the lame man downtown, Jack quickly forgets every
disturbance in the mystery that comes punctually at the end
of the day, when the world melts away and he enters the land
of forgetting.

INT. DINING ROOM —- WITH IDEALIZED IMAGES OF OTHER HOMES

Mr. O'Brien clinks a glass with his. spoon to get their
attention.

FATHER

Lord, bless this house. May there
be peace within its walls . May all
who live here be true to each
other. And please be good 4+ Ed, my
brother. He's been 300d +o hundreds
of people. Amen.

(after a pause)
Take your elbows off the table.

JACK
I was going to.

FATHER
You defy me.

JACK
What's that?

FATHER

You Know.

One does not feel his an is caused by this trifle of
putting one's @lbows on Nhe table, but that it was there to
begin with. It does Mot last long. A moment later he might be
showing them affection. Kissing them. Pinching their butts.
They do not like it, but he does not seem to care.

FATHER (CONT'D)
It's how I was raised!

He has a taste for hot peppers. The imprint of his kisses
burns their cheeks.

- FATHER (CONT'D)
Why are you whimpering?

STEVE
I felt a scorpion crawl up my back.

FATHER
Nonsense.
47.

STEVE
It happened the other night. I
squeezed him till he was dead.

The older boys laugh.

FATHER
You may leave the table.

He turns to Jack.

FATHER (CONT'D)

Will you continue to defy me? I
need to know. Either you take me
into your confidence, aS a son
should his father, or -~wait,
you're interrupting’ me-- I'm not
done yet. Do you think I can
finish? Thank you, your m@ésty.

Jack grinds his teeth.

FATHER (CONT'D)
You could do these simple things if
you really wanted to. Say "Sir".
Not slam the screen door. I'll give
you one more chance. Are you a good
boy? Then do as I ask. Obey your
father.

He rules the world from his chair at the head of the table.
His opinion is correct. He can tell others how to order their

lives, what they Should do. Every other opinion is willful,
mad.

INT. HALL

Later, Jack overhears his mother and father whispering in the
living room.

MOTHER (0.S.)

You haven't filed an income tax
return for the last three years...
gambled our savings away...cards...

FATHER (0.S.)

With you have an equal chance.
Besides, I've denied myself. I have
the right to a few pleasures!

Jack approaches the door to the living room, slightly ajar.
48.

MOTHER (0.S.)
You're never home. I don't know
whether it's good or bad...

FATHER (0.S.)
...throw it back in my face!

MOTHER (0.S.)
We loved each other. I thought it
would last forever. I wanted to die
in your arms. You remember how
happy we were. You remember --

Jack does not stir. He knew somethi was amiss. He never
suspected it might be anything so dawk and unfathomable.

MOTHER (QS) (CONT'D)
I thought I could make you jove me,
but I see you can't do that. T
don't know what makes somebody love
you, but it's not something you do.
You don't get it by being kind or
generous or anything like that --

Bugs dive into the screens and bounce off with a thrum. The

fight leaps and lurches about. As Jack approaches the door,

their words gradually become more coherent, until at last we
cut to them inside the living room.

MOTHER (CONT'D)
They get anxious when they know
you on your way home. They jump
around. You discipline them too
much. You expect them to act like
adults. You @xpect things of them
they can't possibly achieve.

FATHER
They learn respect.

MOTHER
That's not how to get them to
respect you. Can't you see they're
afraid of you -- their own father?

FATHER .
You don't back me up. They have ten
times what we ever did.

MOTHER
You're never happy with anything
they do.
49.

MOTHER (CONT'D)
There's always something wrong with
it. Even your own mother told you
so!

FATHER
Leave her out of this!

Jack sees RL is awake, sits down beside him and hugs him
close. RL studies a compass. The needle moves without being
touched. _
MOTHER (0.S.)
We can't keep on like this. We're
driving each other crazy. Why do
you act like such a tyraul?

She suffers from his injustice toward the children, from his
dark, inexplicable rages. She feelg herSelf, everything,
being annihilated by him. She has lost her freedom.

FATHER (0.S.)
You want to see what a tyrant is
like?

‘He cannot break free of her. She is the rock on which he
stands. Yet she will not be one with him.

He seems to come apart inside. A lust for destruction fills
his blood. Yet what does he have in life but her? Nothing.

RL
What is Mom crying about?

JACK
She's not crying.

RL
Listen.

JACK

Well, she won't cry for long.

RL
Why are they that way?

INT. LIVING. ROOM

The next day the boys are very solicitous of their mother.
They fix her a sandwich and bring her a cup of tea.

She keeps her pain to herself. Whom can she confide in?
Neighbors talk, and she would alarm those whom she loves. She
is lonely, far from her own people. In shorthand, for
discretion's sake, she jots down her thoughts.
50.

EXT. O'BRIEN HOUSE - CLOTHESLINE
Jack watches her set the laundry out to dry.

MOTHER
What are you thinking, hon?

JACK
Nothing.

She begins to chase him; a girl again. He runs around the
house, breathless with delight. Then, all at once, he does

not hear her. When he goes back to look for her, she jumps
out of the shadows. He does not lau

JACK (CONT'D)
Don't fight with Dad.

She looks away, embarrassed. How much doeg he know? His heart
aches for her, constantly. She feels him back of her, waiting
on her, bearing what part of the burden he can.

EXT. O'BRIEN HOUSE -— LAWN

Mr. O'Brien inspects the lawn.

FATHER
Get clear to the edge.

JACK
There's so much. All crab grass. I
can't. Z won't.

FATHER
Are you sure?

Jack looks away, backing down. He hates himself for it.
Later, he watches hig father strop a straight razor.

EXT. BRAZOS RIVER

His father is teaching him how to swim, mocking his fears,
calling him farther, out into the deep. His feet are barely
able to touch the muddy rocks at the bottom.

There is no one on the shore. No one to see.

FATHER
Come out. Farther.

Why? Jack gasps for air. Would his father -- Why so far?
51.

FATHER (CONT'D)
Swim.

A POV looking up from the depths. What lies below?

JACK
Was that a water moccasin?

FATHER
Did you see the head and that's
all? That's a turtle.

Later, dressing together, he looks at his father's powerful
body. He is weak and slight while his flather is strong.

EXT. O'BRIEN HOUSE - LAWN - DUSK

He picks crab grass at the edge of tne yard . Tears come to
his eyes. The oak tree looks down as though in sympathy.

INT. LIVING ROOM - DUSK

He almost has made his way through the living room when his
father puts down the newspaper.

FATHER
Did you get it all?

Jack nods. He deceives his father. This way is better, though
it hurts his sense of honor. He still tells his mother the
truth.

JACK
Elie 68ND
MOTHER

Don't. I've told lies myself. I've
tried it. It's not the best way.

INT. KITCHEN - TIGHT ON HANDS

Jack has divided a cupcake his mother baked into two
portions. Steve waits for his. Turning to Jack, she asks:

MOTHER
Are they equal? Give him the piece
you want.
It is a revelation.

She sends the boys out with raspberries with instructions to
leave them on Mrs. Stickley's front step.
52.

INT. BOYS' ROOM - NIGHT

Tonight it is their father who comes to visit them before
they go to sleep. He turns the gooseneck lamp towards the
wall and amuses them by making silhouettes on it with his
hands. A duck! A bear! A dog! He makes their faces up with a
burnt cork. Steve gets to blow out the match. Now discord
seems a dream. Why can't it be this way every night -- in the
daytime, too?

FATHER
(to Jack)
I remember when you were born. They
wouldn't let me come home! The Navy
said: "An officer must be present
at the laying of the Keel, but not
at the launching"!

He gets up to leave.

RL
sit with us.

He shakes his head, and moves to the door.

STEVE
Don't close. it all the way.

Jack listens as his father plays the piano. His brothers are
asleep. How ravishing the music sounds as it comes floating
down the hall. How strange that there should be such
tenderness in a man otherwise so coarse, so unreasonable!
That one who professeS to love you should cause you injury
and suffering, yet Appear not to care that he does!

HIGH DOWN ANGLE~ HELICOPTER SHOT - SCREECH OWL

The music flows out through the windows into the night. The
camera rises over the neighborhood, which lies in peace
beneath the stars.

INT. PARENTS' BEDROOM - THE NEXT MORNING

Mr. and Mrs. O'Brien talk in-low voices. They have turned on
the fan to assure the privacy of their conversation.

MOTHER
You fight with the men above you --
you laugh at them -- then wonder
why they don't promote you.’
53.

FATHER
It's fools they put ahead of. me.
Liars. They. pass over me.

MOTHER
And. the men underneath you -- you
work them too hard!

FATHER

Morale is great. Sometimes they
work thirty-six hours at a stretch
-- don't even ask for overtime! You
don't know what it's like. Always
following orders of men you can't
respect. They want you to scheme
for their favor. It makes you less
, than. a man.

EXT. KIMBALLS' HOUSE

The next afternoon a large black grackle appears in the oak
tree and, shortly afterward, they discover Robert sitting. on
the fence; a mean child who it seems lives on a street far
away; they are not quite sure where.

RL
Who's that?

From a hiding place, Robert shoots the Kimballs' German
shepherd with a BB gun. The poor creature, normally so proud
and threatening, looks about, wondering where the blow is
coming from; defer=oless against it; now reduced to a
cringing, whimpering mass. Robert smiles.

EXT. STICKLEYS' HOUSE
The Stickleys' house is not up to the standard of the rest.of

the neighborhood. The free-standing garage is unpainted, its
windows opaque.

ROBERT
Let's us bust ‘em.

RL
Why?

ROBERT

Why? Just ‘cause.

Jack mumbles some words about his mother having forbidden it.
54.

ROBERT (CONT'D)
, You afraid, boy?
(after a pause)
You don't need to tell her, do you?
Nobody needs to know but us
chickens. I broke a window once.
Didn't nothing happen to me.
Chicken ain't nothing but a bird!
(later)
Why let them. keep you from having
fun? Why not do what you wanta do?

Robert punches another boy on the arm..The boy runs off
howling.

JACK
Why'd you do that?

ROBERT
I'm not him. What do I care?

The strange boy fascinates Jack with his amused contempt for
others, his nonchalance, his sensitivity to anything which
wounds his pride, his refusal to play a hypocritical part.

Later, they find themselves alone.

ROBERT (CONT'D)
Hold out your elbow.

He is lucid, calm and cynical. There is an odd, motiveless
malignity in him.

ROBERT (CONT'D)
Isaid, hold it out.

As though a hypnotist had commanded it, Jack holds out his
elbow. Robert raps it with the handle of a screwdriver. Jack
pushes him away, surprised. Robert pushes him back. Does he
really want to fight?

Jack hesitates. When someone hits you, are you supposed to
hit him back? How else prevent him from doing it again?

‘ Trembling, he turns and walks away.
INT. LIVING ROOM - LATER THAT EVENING
His mother is dressed up to go out. She has come to tell them

goodnight. She is very lovely, but her black gloves and veil
make her seem unfamiliar to the boys.
55.

MOTHER
What is it?

RL
Why are you wearing those?

MOTHER
We're going out.

RL
Take them off!

She does. Her hands are restored to their natural beauty.

STEVE
Can I touch your earrings?

She lets him. The boys look dolefully at her

JACK
Don't go. We can fix you dinner.

MOTHER
We'll be back by twelve.

INT. O'BRIEN HOUSE - JACK'S POV

The Studebaker grows smaller in the distance. Will there be a
time when they might be separated from her forever?

They bounce on the beds and have a pillow fight. Their uncle
is the babysitter. He lets them do anything they please while
he talks on the phone in the other room.

INT. O'BRIEN HOUSE ~LATER

Later that night Jack wakes up to a muffled noise of anger in
the living room. He sits up in his bed. Outside the trees
swash back and forth, filling him with a sense of terror.

He slips out of bed and peers through a crack in the door,
into the living room.

MOTHER (0.S.)
...We needed it. We did!

Mr. O'Brien rages up and down the hall. He swings between
extremes of behavior, one moment acting like a fool, then
suddenly remembering that he is the father of a family.

His high-minded struggle against his shortcomings never lasts
for long, however. He is of too impulsive a nature.
56.

He simply cannot stand the idle life of a penitent in the
bosom of his own family, and he always ends up rebelling
against it.

Jack sees his brothers are awake. He strokes their backs, to
comfort them. What has their father done? What is he capable
of? The screen door slams.

Jack sees tears in his mother's eyes. She looks up with a
start. He takes her hand.

MOTHER (CONT'D)
I thought you were asleep.

JACK
Why are you crying, Mother? sweet
Mother!

MOTHER

I was thinking about your father.
Missing him.

JACK
I know you're crying now, but
someday you’ won't. Someday we're
going to -- help you --
(how? )
Can I get you something to drink?

How is she to get close to her. husband? This is a slow
starvation. She has almost resigned herself to loneliness and
isolation. She is determined that the children should know
nothing of her troubles. They are anxious enough as it is.

Jack runs to his bedroom and gathers up his savings, twenty
or thirty dollars in coins. He gives them to her in a jar.

She touches him on the cheek. She avoids his eyes.

He knows the misery of nights. He sees her eyes dark and
pinched with torture; she whom he loves more than life; she
whom he would die to save from any hurt.

JACK (CONT'D)
We're all right. We won't ever
leave you, Mom.

MOTHER
Thank you.

JACK
We won't ever do anything to make
you unhappy. I promise.
57.

Later, hearing her voice in the other room, it strikes him
that some day he might be left to himself in this world. In
whisper, he prays:

JACK (CONT'D)
Help me not be mean. Help me not to
sass my Dad --—

EXT. O'BRIEN HOUSE - LAWN
The next day, Mr. O'Brien inspects Jack's yard-work.

FATHER

Shake the dirt off the roots so it
doesn't leave a hole.Thats too
hard, I guess... And over here, why
haven't you watered the corners?
You haven't had time, of Course!
Look, this is cropped so close it's
going to burn out. Keep it watered.
Why's this bare?

JACK
The grass won't grow under the
trees.

His soul is seared into a rage. Nothing is enough.

FATHER
It does at the Kimballs'.
JACK
They have a yardman.
fATHER
(defensively)

They have money. Kimball inherited
it. All day I'm at the office! It
seems you can put in a few hours
out here. You want me to go over it
again? What are you smiling about?
I know what you're thinking.

JACK
You do?

FATHER
I don't want you to say a word
until you're done. I'll be very
disappointed if you do. I won't
know about it. Of course, you could
fool me.
58.

He has the unshakable belief that he must approve or modify
everything the children do. He is full of petty and
exasperating cautions. Watch it! Step there. Open the door!

EXT. GARAGE ~- A CAT

The boys find a cat and take it up onto the roof of the
garage. It writhes in their hands. Its look of terror gives
them a faint thrill of pleasure.

RL
We might hurt it --

JACK :
They always land ontheirfeet.

Cayler nods. He, too, is curious tg see how the cat will
react to the fall. It yowls and lands with @ thud, shakes
itself and walks off slowly. RL glances at. Jack with a new
distrust.

Jack looks away. Where before it seemed all evil lay outside,
now with a growing dread he sees that it might lie within
him, too.

He cheats to win, yet he is angry when others cheat him.

RL
{playing guns)
I got you!
JACK

No, you didn't. I was just wounded!

How can he object. to the evil in others, when he does those
very things which jy them he deplores?

Robert watches from afar.
INT. BOYS' ROOM

His mother answers him. Most of her words play against scenes
of their everyday life.

MOTHER
Treat everyone as you'd like to be
treated. Help each other. Encourage
each other. Love everyone. Every
leaf. Every ray of light. You boys
are the pride of my life!
59.

MOTHER (CONT'D)

The reason I’m saying all this is
that I don't want you to waste ten
years of your life learning to know
yourself and the reason for your
difficulties, as your mother did.
It's hard to stand by and see your
children make the same mistakes you
made. I hope you won't, sweetheart.

Jack remembers holding a toy out to RL, inviting him to take
it, then snatching it away again, teasing him, expecting him
to cry, astonished that he smiles instead.

MOTHER (CONT'D)
Once I dreamed of becoming a
doctor.

RL
Why didn't you?

MOTHER
Things didn't work out.

JACK
I don't get it.

MOTHER
What don't you get?

JACK
The whole thing.
MOTHER
Well, you have a lot to learn, and

you can't learn it all at once.

FATHER'S POV

Mr. O'Brien sees how the boys dote on their mother. He waves
Jack and RL over to the car.

INT. MOVING CAR - WEALTHY NEIGHBORHOOD
They are out for a drive. They pass a big house.

JACK
Who lives there?

FATHER
Frank Johnson. He. started out as a
barber, but he built something big.
Never let anything stop him.
60.

FATHER (CONT'D)
Bucky, who runs the company now, he
started out on an ice truck. He
even got fired a couple of times.

Jack and RL have never seen any of these men, but they are
mythical figures in the boys' imagination.

FATHER (CONT'D)

Bucky asked me once if I wanted to
go deer hunting with him. I said
no. In front of all his top peopie!
He asked me why. I said I can't
stand to hunt, it makes me sick.
You should've seen the look on
their faces! You know what Bucky
told me? He was quiet fora minute,
then he said: "You Know. I’ve never
liked it that much either. Maybe I
won't go this year."

Jack looks away, embarrassed. The boys need no proof of their
father's superiority.

FATHER (CONT'D)
A corporation has no soul. They'll
cut. their own grandmother's throat.
It has to be that way. Merciless.
But, if you take their money, you
have to take their --

INT. RESTAURANT

Jack burns with embarrassment as Mr. O'Brien complains to a
waitress about their food, then kisses her hand for serving
them well. He makes @ big show of giving her a tip, holding
the money out, +hen pulfin it away when she reaches for it.
Oddly, she does not Mind all this as much as Jack does, but
laughs it off as play.

INT. MOVING CAR - LATER

JACK
Why do you work so hard?

FATHER
So you'll have a place to stand. I
might not amount to anything, but
you will. You boys will stand on my
shoulders.
6l.

THEIR POVS - DOWNTOWN & POOR PARTS OF TOWN (BARTLETT, ETC.)

The city, which at first seemed glorious to Jack, is a
mystery to him now, with its freight yards and grain
elevators, its blind men, cripples and drunks shouting from
the doorways.

FATHER
The world lives by trickery. If you
want to succeed, you can't be too
good. .

They reach the poor. parts of town. His father has come to buy
some barbecue. There are rundown shackg and cars parked in
front yards. A black man stares at him.

FATHER (CONT'D)
Belong to yourself: that’s the
whole thing in life. Learn to
master yourself. Your will. Your
will makes you free. Set up your
will as a law over you!

Later Jack sees a team of workers, digging a ditch. Worms lie
on the heaps of dirt, cut in two by their shovels. Jack's
heart is moved to pity at the sight of the writhing
creatures. And then to see these men with their bodies bent,
their hair disheveled, their faces glistening with sweat,
their hands and arms covered with clay.

It seems that suffering must lie at the heart of life, not at
its periphery; it is not some accident that troubles the
unfortunate only. No, inconstancy is the rule. The fading
rose. The uprooted tree.

FATHER (CONT'D)

See those people. Somebody got the
upper hand with them. Don't let it
happen to you. You've got to get
ahead of the other guy. He'll be
doing .all he can to do the same to
you.

Jack. exchanges a look with his brother, riding in the back
seat. They observe everything about him which is ridiculous,
then mimic and exaggerate these features for each other.

FATHER (CONT'D)
Money will break down all obstacles
in your way- Hold on to it. It's
the most reliable thing there is in
this world. A friend is likely to
betray you. Money never will.
62.

FATHER (CONT'D)
Find the thing they can't do
without. Patents!

As his father goes on, Jack's thoughts turn to their dog.
Shep's is a perfect love. He is their friend, their clown,
their guardian and protector. He accepts being teased,
slighted; ignored. He knows no unhappiness, like the three-
legged dog who lives down the block and runs around as though
no misfortune had ever befallen him.

INT. LIVING ROOM - JACK'S POVS - LATER

Jack listens as his father questions his mother about a bent
spoon.

FATHER

Who did this?

(turning on RL)
I might enjoy lazing around, too. I
could walk out the front door and
say I was going to pick
blackberries! Just wave goodbye and
wander off. No, you want to be
served, but you don't want to have
any responsibilities in return.
You're going to have a record, and
it's going to follow you around the
rest of your life. On it will be
the grades you made -- what you
accomplished and what you didn't.
People read it. If you mess up, you
might not be able to get a security
cle ice. People will ask why.

One knows he will awaken, come to himself at last. It will be
dreadful when he does. Could he endure a full awakening?
Would it destroy him?

EXT. OAK TREE

Outside, Jack climbs the live oak tree. Higher and higher he
goes, until he stands like a sailor on top of a mast. There

he may commune with himself. The world below seems small and
unreal.

The door bursts open. His father storms outside and sits on
the porch. A few moments later, RL comes outside. He sits
down beside his father and rests his head against his
shoulder.

Jack watches. He wonders if he could love his father, too ~~
63.

EXT. BATES' HOUSE - SERIES OF ANGLES

The Bates live in harmony. He never passes their house
without receiving a benediction. Mr. Bates plays football
with the boys, and Mrs. Bates serves them cookies at the end
of the afternoon. Theirs is a happy home, with nothing to
hide.

MRS. BATES
Are you sure your mother isn't
wondering where you are?

JACK
No, Ma'am -- she's ok

He sees how Mr. Bates draws his sons close, hugs them
tenderly, strokes their hair.

INT. EPISCOPAL CHURCH

The next morning, Mr. O'Brien sits at the organ in church. He
seems calm and untroubled. He loves the winding toccatas and
fugues, the candles, the stillness of the choir loft before
the service, the music swelling out majestically as he
presses down the keys. His will relaxes. He ceases to fret.
All is as it should be. Why not always so?

Why do people oppress each other? Why are they not faithful
to the best in themselves?

- The camera rises over the ranks of pipes, over the gladiolas
and the stained glasS windows. Jack marvels at this father: a
man who for all his faith and vitality suffers from a deep
disquiet, as though not even. being God-fearing and pious
could bring peace’ to his Soul.

His. fingers work the keys, his. feet walk up and down the
pedals. Jack reads the music, turns the pages, pulls the
stops. At such moments they are bound together in harmony.

Later, Jack walks in the church, alone. His footsteps are
loud in the silence. A sparrow, caught inside the building,
flies through the rafters and beats its wings against a high
windows, trying to find a way out.

EXT. CHURCH GROUNDS - BELL

Mr. Singh, the sexton, is taking down the flag.

RL (0.S.)
He rings the bell when you die.
64.

Jack watches as his father talks with a vestryman. Mr.
O'Brien shows a courtesy and a desire to please that the boys
do not often see in him. In the end he bids the stranger an
obsequious goodbye.

FATHER
A friend of mine. He owns half the
real estate in town.

Sunday is a day of rest and relaxation. Other families may
drop by to visit, unannounced. The stores are closed, as
people take their ease. Yet Mr. O'Brien is restless, tense.
They are having dinner on the porch when he turns to RL:

FATHER (CONT'D)

Will you do something for me? You
promise me that you’fido it,
without asking what it 15? Just
have the confidence that what your
father asks of you is right?

(RL nods)
For the next half hour, will you
not speak unless you have something
important to say?

(turning to Steve)
And what did you do today, my fine-
feathered friend?

One by one, each child is called upon to justify himself.
Where does it come from, this pleasure in humiliation? This
indifference to their dignity and even to his own? He
deceives others, debases himself in order to impress them --
makes up stories, facts, the etymologies of words, without a
trace. of shame.

FATHER (CONT'D)
Sit on the front two inches of your
chair. It's good for your posture.
I read it in the paper.

He holds up a rock before Jack's eyes, a thunder egg from the
children's collection, a sort of polished agate.

FATHER (CONT'D)

You actually bought this from Mr.
Ledbetter? Don't explain. Just nod.
Yes or no.

JACK
He gave it to me. That one's my
favorite.
65.

FATHER
I don't know how long I can keep
paying for these rocks. We're
living in a fancy neighborhood, but
we can't afford this house. If
Kimball next door knew what our
situation was, he would laugh. Of
course, he got all his money from
his father-in-law.

RL
Be quiet. Please.

FATHER
What did you say?

Mr. O'Brien takes a hot pepper and rubs it on the child's
lips. Mrs. O'Brien rises to her feet in anger.

FATHER (CONT'D)
You will straighten up and fly
right!

Jack has never seen his father possessed in quite this way.
His brother's cries are unbearable. The innocent one has no
defense.

JACK
Leave him alone!

His father looks up, astonished. Jack strikes him with his
fist, steps back.and stares at him defiantly. His father
slaps him across the face.

MOTHER
stoe!

FATHER
Keep your voice down. The neighbors
can hear. Children aren't
reasonable. They can only be
governed by fear.

MOTHER
How can you be so cruel!

FATHER
I give my life for them. My blood.
I let them eat my heart. Do I tie
them to a tree? Do I take off my
belt -- like McKeever? They have
their lives from me!
66.

He will force them to love him, whether they like it or not.

RL is put in a closet. Mrs. O'Brien's blood rises in a fever
as she clutches Steve in her arms. She wonders if her husband
does not take some pleasure in punishing the boys. The moral
tortures are harder on them than the physical ones. His
suspicious glances, his mouth curling in scorn, the
sentimentality that so quickly spills over into cruelty.

What is she to do? Confronting him only makes the situation
worse. He will stop at nothing to win an argument.

MOTHER
(later)
You hardly know them. You're gone
all the time.

FATHER
I have to support my family:

MOTHER
You speak without listening to
-them. You never listen to anyone
else. You interrupt. There's no
length you won't go to get your
way.

She looks at him as one who once loved him and no longer
does; so it seems to him.

FATHER
If it's such a hell, why don't you
leave?

She suspects that he wants to degrade her because he has
never been ableto possess her soul. Always she has managed
to move beyond his reach.

MOTHER
What about them? Wouldn't I have
gone long ago, except for them!
Haven't I been sorry that I didn't!

FATHER
What are you waiting for?

MOTHER
I would be only too glad to get
away from you --

She cannot control her words. They fly out of her mind like
sparks.
67.

FATHER
You left me long ago.
MOTHER
Keep your voice down.
FATHER
You turned away from me ~~ the day

your first child was born.

He suspects that she hates him. It causes him to offend her
violently.

MOTHER
Coming home late -- ambi ing their
future away. You took the money RL
saved from his paper route -

FATHER
I put it back. I'm an outsider to
you, aren't I? You hold yourself
apart. Proud of your virtue. You
want to make me better than I am.

Why can she not be content with what he is? Why will she only
have him as he ought to be?

MOTHER

You're always so angry. Why?
FATHER

I want a life without lies.
MOTHER

What js. eating at you?
FATHER

Nothing. Do I disgust you?
MOTHER

I love you.
FATHER

Maybe you don't.

She risks less than he does. She has her worth, which she can
never lose. And the children, whom he does not have.

FATHER (CONT'D)
You put them up to your tricks. You
teach them to hate me! Their own
father!
68.

Her blood rises in a jet. Jack listens. Will theirs be a
family like Howard's? The world is darker than he imagined.

How shall he comfort his mother? Redeem her sorrow? He thinks
of Christmas, when home is home, when for a day they are a
family, the bright colors beneath the tree, lights burning
late into the night.

He plays with a flashlight, shining it through his hand,
exposing the bones of his fingers.

INT. BOYS' ROOM - LATER

The boys cower in their room. Mr. Q'Brien bangs his fist on
the formica as Mrs. O'Brien sobs.

FATHER
Isn't a wife supposed to love,
cherish, obey?

Jack fears his father's wild energy. He has got to fight him
every inch of the way, in order not to be swamped, engulfed —~—
to stay alive. He clings to RL and Steve. He will never leave
his brothers.

JACK
(in a whisper)
We have each other.

BACK TO PARENTS

Shame has come over Mr. O'Brien. He has fallen. She knows it.
She suffers from his fall more than he does.

PATHER
Bach's sons revered him -- kissed
his hands! They played music
together for hours on end. Their
home was a haven of peace!
Jubilation! I can't get them to
touch the piano.

He is pitiless, but she will not be swayed. The purity of her
conduct is her strength. She will not give him the right to
despise her.

He touches her cheek, kisses her. Nothing is mended. He made
up his mind long ago not to understand.

Later, a sense of her own loneliness comes over her as she
reads a letter from her brother.
69.

EXT. KIMBALLS' CLOTHESLINE

Alone, Jack walks past a neighbor's clothesline. White
underclothes hang among the sheets and towels.

Jack remembers going by the Browns one night in search of an
overthrown ball, how he saw Mr. Brown strike his wife in the
presence of their children. No one else witnessed the event.
The Browns had been a family whose happiness was taken for
granted. It now’seems to Jack that behind the calm facade of
ordinary life, there might lie something dark and shameful.

EXT. WOODS

The woods are full of drafts, like@ Spring fed pool. Jack
walks under the trees, seeking a presence he has known here
before.

Nature is free and without blemish. The rustling leaves
refresh his shattered nerves. Their spirit is his mother's
own. A presence, yes. It speaks. Come, it says; find me. In
me you will discover that which does not fail or disappoint.
An unseen hand ceaselessly touches his face, his heart.

How to see as the oak tree does?

EXT. O'BRIEN HOUSE

The brothers are playing after school.

RL
It's going to rain.

JACK
Who says?

RL

I can make it rain.

The sky is blue. But RL does a little dance, inviting the
clouds to come. Later on they do. The rain pours down. RL is
modest in his victory. Jack laughs. Now trouble seems a
dream.

RL (CONT'D)
I don't lie that much.

Gazing at his brother, he hears the same voice which he heard
among the trees. It beckons him. Where?
70.

THE NEXT DAY

Mr. O'Brien seems to have forgotten yesterday's scene at the
dinner table. Not the children. Nor his wife. It lies across
the family like a shadow.

FATHER
Give me a kiss.

RL does.
EXT. KIMBALLS' HOUSE - WIND CHIMES

Some days. later Jack hears the tinkling of the wind chimes at
the Kimballs' house. Wandering toward$ it, he notices their
car pulling away. He waits, then cavtiovs ly he enters their
garage. A door leads from the laundry yoorn jnto the house. He
looks around to see in anyone is watching, ten quietly he
opens it.

INT. KIMBALLS' HOUSE

He wanders through the unfamiliar rooms. The house ticks in
the heat. There is money on the kitchen counter, but he
ignores it. With a mounting dread he approaches the stairs
that lead up to the sleeping quarters.

What lies up there? He touches the banister but dares not go
further. After a moment, he retreats back the way he came.

He stands outside in the sunlight, stunned. What else is he
capable of?

INT. KITCHEN
His mother sees that he is troubled.

MOTHER
What is it? Tell me.

JACK
Nothing.

She goes back to what she was doing. He feels queasy and
confused for having told a lie.

JACK (CONT'D)
I went in the Kimballs' house. They
weren't there.

MOTHER
Why did you do it? You can't go in
when they aren't there.
71.

JACK
The door was open.

MOTHER
They leave it open because they
expect you won't go in. Never do it
again. Promise me. Thank you.

 

JACK
Are you going to tell Dad?

She hesitates a moment, then shakes her head. With her there
is forgiveness. Whether or not you ask for it. Whether or not
you deserve it.

LATER THAT NIGHT

A figure stands by his bed that night. He touches the crown
of his head.

INT. LIVING ROOM
His father gives Jack a lecture.

FATHER
Don't try to make people love you.
Make them fear you. If someone
clips you, sock him back. Who can
you trust? Your own family. Be good
to them. That's enough. Your mother
is naive. It takes fierce will to
get ahead in this world. Don't let
anyone stand in your way.

MOTHER
(looking in)
He needs to get to school.-

FATHER

This is more important. This is
school. Please.

(after she leaves)
Don't let your own laziness stand
in your way. You don't have to --
pardon the expression -- kiss
anyone's derriere. Nobility is a
luxury. Avoid controversy. Every
one of these top executives, you
know how they get to where they
are? They float it down the middle
of the river.
72.

Mother and father.live inside him. They wrestle for his soul.
He strives to reconcile them, but they refuse to be
reconciled. Why can he not find. a harmony between them? Which
party is he of? Let it be one or the other: not the chaos of
their blind struggle.

He remembers his mother telling him:

MOTHER
Be good, sweetheart. If someone
hurts you, forgive him!

JACK
(interrupting)
~ Why shouldn't I get whatI want?
They do. What about me?

MOTHER
People hurt each other. T+ wovld be
easy to be happy if they didn't.

You have to overlook it -- give in,
sometimes, even if you're in the
right.

What is the fate of those who live by love, the golden rule?

Steve is playing in the sprinkler outside, as happy as Jack
once was, still on the far bank of a river which Jack himself
has already crossed over.

JACK
Are you going to leave us?
(she shakes her

Ts he? nead)

Jack wonders if he really wishes it. When he comes out of his
daydream, his father {¢ still talking.

FATHER
-- If you're good, people take
advantage of you. Think of yourself
as someone caught behind enemy
lines. Work! Fight! I see you
wasting your time -~ staring out
the window -- playing! I make
sacrifices for you. You honor those
sacrifices by what you do. That's
how a family works.

Jack shifts uneasily in his chair.
73.

FATHER (CONT'D)

I'd like to do what I want, too. I
dreamed of being a great: musician.
But how could I make a living for
my family? And so I have to go off
every day --

(with emotion)
My father lost his job, Ed was off
in Vegas, he sent nothing home. I
had to quit school and join the
Army Air Corps so your grandmother
could have something to eat. They
shut the lights out on her. We
couldn't pay the electricity. She
had to take in boavders.

Jack thinks of the love he often feels for his father as he
falls asleep at night, listening to him at the piano --

FATHER (CONT'D)
See this? You know why I keep it
here? It was the official seal of
my own company, the one I formed --
I had the papers -- till I got
hepatitis from drinking
unpasteurized beer in China. They
took it away from me. It's dog eat
dog out there. Don't you forget it.
Don't let anyone tell you there's
anything you can't do! I've
protected you as best I can. But I
didu'+ get an education. You will.
You'll get through. By God, you
wilk You can't fool me. I know you
live a book!

Jack imagines restivq \m his father's arms, their differences
forgotten. Then the “fantastic scene breaks up, and he is back
in the living room, sunk in silence. °

FATHER (CONT'D)
When you came into this world, you
know what I did? I went outside and
danced on the lawn. I shot off my
pistol. You're my freedom! Every
time I see a young guy walk by with
a shirt and tie, looking sharp,
that's my kid I'm looking at. Don't
do like I did, though. Promise me
that. I let myself get sidetracked.
While you're looking for something
to happen, that was it! That was
life! You lived it!
74.

FATHER (CONT'D)
(shaking his head)
I let one thing after another drag
me backwards. We stuck together,
though. When you have nothing,
you've still got your honor. Your
dignity. You still have each other!

EXT. STREET - STRAY DOG

A stray dog appears; a stranger to the neighborhood. It bumps
into things. It séems that it might be blind.

Curious, nonchalant, it trots through the street until
Howard's purple-tongued chow materializes out of nowhere to
attack it. The boys look on in horror as Shep joins in the
fight. His hostility towards a poor, defenseless creature
astonishes them., It seems there iS no mevcy for the weak, the
helpless; no quarter given. And the truth is, Jack himself
does not mind watching things get worse, Tt is not until some
of the adults roll out a hose and Stov4 Spray ing water on the
dogs that he comes to himself and pulls Shep ai .

MR. BATES (0.S.)
Somebody must have let it go. Got
too old, went blind -- they didn't
have the heart to put it to sleep.
Probably I should get my shotgun
and shoot it.

JACK
Stay here!

Shep will not jook Wim in his eye but twists and turns, eager
to get back into the fray

Later the same afternoou, they hear the screech of brakes and
a strange, high yelp. Then, far away, a soft wail or moan.
Steve breaks Yneb teavs.

EXT. VACANT LOT - DUSK
They wade through the weeds of a vacant lot, where the dog
has gone to die. From time to time they hear its haunting
cry. They cannot find it; only a trail of blood. Wounded,
afraid, it keeps dragging itself away from them.
EXT. O'BRIEN HOUSE (BACKYARD)
Jack listens as Steve questions their mother.

STEVE

What happens when you die? Does it
hurt? Does it happen to everyone?
75.

MOTHER
Sooner or later.

STEVE
There's nothing you can do about
it? Will you die, too?

It.seems the grown-ups understand things no better than he
does.

MOTHER
Not for a long time.

STEVE
will I?

RL

You're not that old yet,.Mom.

STEVE
Where do you go?

Jack sees his mother with new eyes now. The day might come
when she must leave them.

STEVE (0.S.) (CONT'D)
Who put the spikes on the sun?

He remembers when she got her fingers caught in the Mixmaster
and cried out to him to jerk the cord from the wall. A quick
flash --

EXT. O'BRIEN HOUSE

He remembers, too, Q day when they were eating outdoors with
the neighbors aud suddenly he heard someone shouting. There
was a coral snake on the ground. She walked right past it.

He watched how it flowed unhindered over the ground, as if
free of friction or restraint, beyond any human power of
control, cryptic, a dark enigma with lidless eyes.

MRS. BATES
She walked right past it!

MR. BATES
Get a hoe. Its mate must be around
here. You watch: couple of days and
it'll turn up.

Mr. Bagley chops the snake in two with a hoe. Mr. Bates
stamps on the severed head.
76.

MR. BAGLEY
Nothing you can do if one of them
bites you. Against a copperhead
you've got a chance. Not these'uns.
Once they close their mouth, they
can't let go. Even if they wanted
to. "Red on yellow, kill a fellow."

EXT. PATIO
The next morning RL turns to his mother:

. RL
Where's Dad?

MOTHER :
Gone on a trip.

The boys go wild. They crawl around on the floor, they bounce
on the beds, they let the screen door slam carelessly behind
them. She cannot contain their energy.

JACK
We're going to stay up late.

MOTHER
Oh no, you're not!

STEVE
All night! Don't say no, because
you know it makes me angry. Look at
me! IZ mean it!

They run through the sprinkler. Finding a lizard, they chase
her into the batrroem with it. Laughing, they ignore her
pleas, and when they hear the lock click shut, they slip it
in under the door.

MONTAGE - WHILE THEIR FATHER IS AWAY

She shows them flowers, glowing colors and birds that sing,
the fruit tree at the edge of the woods, the gardenias, the
wings of little creatures beneath a magnifying glass. So many
mysteries! She shows them a barn swallow's nest.

MOTHER
They trust us ~- not to knock it
down.

She gives them a book of natural history. His hands leaf
through the pages. There are dinosaurs, frogs and armor-
plated fish with names too long to pronounce. The Seven
Wonders of the Ancient World.
77.

She shows them the leaf of a tall locust tree and sets it
next to a pea vine, demonstrating the family relation there
sometimes is between things large and small. For a time all
is as it was. The hours go by uncounted.

STEVE
Can I marry you when I grow up?
(she laughs)
Don't tell anyone else.

It makes Jack ill at ease to see his mother cuddling Steve.

JACK
He drank all the milk and didn't
leave us any.

Steve bolts out the door and runs around naked in the rain.
The thunder and lightning delight him; the water rushing
through the gutters, sucking at his ankles, so cool.

MOTHER

You little devil! Come back here!
RL

Mom, I see that thing again.
MOTHER

What thing?
RL

The suckin’ goat!

STEVE
TH il Suck you down that hole by
the fence! T+ |\ get you while
you're not looking! It got Woody's

doo! GSnates! Hit the lights!

Later, they watch from another room as she dances by herself
to some music on the radio.

Jack remembers a dream he once had of his mother lying, like
Snow White, in a glass coffin. Her beautiful red cheeks, her
hair black as the night. How would he face the world without
her? He cannot bear the thought that he might have a separate
destiny.

EXT. O'BRIEN HOUSE
Jack brings a jar of ice water and a plate of sandwiches out

to 0.C., a laborer whom his father has hired to spread fresh
loam on,the yard.
78.

O.c.
Your mother sent this? Well, she's
the nicest lady. She's a good
mother and a good woman. I never
worked for nobody as considerate.

His salmon-colored palms grip the shovel. He works all day
long in the broiling sun. He never complains. There is a joy,
it seems, which is compatible with hardship and misfortune.

¢

JACK
Have you seen my fireflies?

He shows 0.C. the bottle filled :
O.C.
Those are the souls of dead people.
You should let them 9° Did I scare
you? I didn't mean t
EXT. HOUSE ROOF

They are up on the roof of a house. They have no business
there, and they know it. Jack nods for RL to jump off.

JACK
You have to; if you want to join
the club.
RL
Why don't you?
JACK
T alveady did.
RL
when?
JACK

You weren't around.

They laugh. Later, he dares his brother to stick | a coat
hanger into a light socket.

JACK (CONT'D) :
I turned it off. It won't hurt. I
tested it. .

RL smiles when nothing happens. But then, as they are roaming
around, Jack snatches a stick out of RL's hand. He does not
protest.
79.

RL
You can have it.

There is another spirit in his brother than Jack finds in
himself. Ashamed, he gives the stick back. Hearing their
mother's voice calling them in, they turn home.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - ROBERT

Robert has reappeared in their lives. He leads them on a
spree of destruction. He encourages them to steal peaches
from McKeever's tree.

ROBERT
They belong to every beady. » Nobody
tells me what to do.. just do
what I want.

Instead of eating the peaches, they threw’them away. One
after another they break out laughing, until they are all
rolling on the ground.

Jack pulls up flowers from the Kimballs' bed. He enjoys the
boys' approval. He is ashamed to be guilty of less impudence
than the others, but when Robert nods at the windows of the
Stickleys' garage, he remembers his mother's stern injunction
and shakes his head.

ROBERT (CONT'D)
Why not?

They put a toad 6n a skyrocket and send it off, then run to
see whether it Survived its skyward flight. Gone. They cannot
find it. And they had felt itaq life pulse in their hands.
They put a Snapping turtle on Shep's ear.

HARRY
It won't let go till sunset.

Shep howls with pain and runs away, glancing over his
shoulder with a look of injured trust.

They stamp on snails, burn up wasps. They make a glory of
their infamy and lies.

CAYLER
I'm six feet tall! I killed a man!
80.

EXT. COURTHOUSE AND JAIL

Another day, outside the courthouse, Jack looks up and sees a
man shouting from a window on the second floor. There are
bars on the window; hands are thrust through them.

Nearby, on the sidewalk, he sees a prisoner who has been led
down the front steps ‘of the courthouse by two men with guns
high on their hips.

The group passes close by. The prisoner's wrists are bound to
a restraining belt. He answers the taunting eyes of
courthouse loafers with a sneer of proud defiance. Somehow
Jack feels close to him; closer, moment, to this
stranger than to his own family. ,

MOTHER
What are you looking at? Come.

One of the policemen stares at him. What does he know, or
guess?

Men rise to their feet as Mrs. O'Brien passes by.
EXT. O'BRIEN HOUSE

Mr. O'Brien returns from his travels. The children glance at
each other. It is as though a stranger had appeared in their
midst. The idyll is over. They must again be the furtive
creatures, the cheats, the guilty ones they were before.

He pats them on : their heads, a little too hard.

INT. DINING ROOM

Mr. O'Brien tells of his travels -- shows them the towels and
washcloths he has carried off from hotels, and money in
denominations so lovee that, were it dollars, they would be
rich.

FATHER

Bishop Sheen was down the hall --
two doors away. Very friendly. The
French are lovable, but they'll rob
you blind. The money's confusing:
new francs, old francs; you never
know which you've got in your hand.
I bought a newspaper for $4.
Halfway back to the hotel TI
realized I'd been robbed. Had a big
fight with the lady. Had to call a
gendarme. He got her to cough up.

(to Mrs. O'Brien)
81.

FATHER (CONT'D)
I'm confident my deal went through.
If not, they can forget it. I'll
tell them all to go to hell.

MOTHER
Be careful.
FATHER
I'm not going to let them shove me
around.
RL
Can Cayler come over?
FATHER
Your own family isw't apo enovoh

for you?

Jack looks at his brother with Suvprise. We would never dare
to invite anyone over. Relatives visit often, but no friend
ever comes to their house.

FATHER (CONT'D)
Your mother's from a farm family.
Irish. They had people down from
Chicago every weekend. That's why
they never got the weeds out of
their fields. The Norwegians would
drive by and laugh!
(she smiles)
You boys don't realize it, but
we're skating on thin ice. You live
in peace, quiet, in warmth. Look at
the Food you have. Still on your
plate! The abundance ! When I was
our age, T was chomping tickets at
the Clar Theater in Chicago.
(Jack squirms )

Are you ina hurry? After the
shows, I cleaned the bathrooms. For
years I had one pair of pants. The
same green pants! I had to run
around in my shorts while my mother
washed them. And still, for all
that, father was always father to
me. Nobody knows what that means
these days. Can a child understand?

It seems to Jack that he and his brothers remain alive
through their father's sacrifice and bear their lives as an
undeserved gift from him. His father has bred in him a deep
suspicion of himself, a doubt of his every action; a doubt of
others, too, and of their motives. He is becoming anxious
about everything; wavering, unable to work out a thought.
82.

There is a loud crash. He let the screen door slam shut.

FATHER (CONT'D)

You can't shut it softly, can you?
No, that's too hard for you, I
suppose. You don't have the time.
That's too much to expect of our
worthy son. Horsefeathers! I want
you to shut it quietly, fifty
times. Not a word of contradiction!

It seems to him there are three worlds, one in which he and
his brothers live subject to their father under laws which he
has invented for them only and which they can never, without
understanding why, ever fully Comply with) a second world
that their father belongs to; a thivl wheve everyone else
lives happily, free from orders ancl Mav ima to obey.

FATHER
Come here!
(pinching him)
I love you. If it doesn't always
seem that way, it's because I can't
pretend like other people do. Kiss
me. Kiss your father.

Jack's mind leaps about, bewildered by his father's health
and appetite, his swagger, his canniness, his indifference to
the burdens he imposes on others; the absence of any
consciousness of hypocrisy when he breaks those rules he
imposes on others.

FATHER (CONT'D)
What are you thinking? Really
tMuking? ‘There are things you
can't Ab? Well, there are things L
can'+ do either !

JACK
(hesitantly)
Dad? Why --
FATHER

You're not to call me Dad, but
Father. Father, sir. Always honor
your father. Every day I go out
that door there. I go out and work
my tail off for you. Show respect.
Don't interrupt!

JACK
You do.
83.

FATHER
I would rather be a beggar on the
streets of Cairo than not to have
the respect of my family.
(after a pause)
Remember: you're the child.

dack counts his breaths.

JACK
This is your house. You can throw
me out whenever you like.
(quaking all over)
You want to kill me!

FATHER
I, too, didn't have any respect. for
my father. Not at First.

What do his boys know of life -- the rich man's arrogance,
the triumph of the fool?

FATHER (CONT'D)
I saw my mother -- she couldn't
read or write -- dependent on a
salesman who couldn't make sales
and was ashamed to tell her so!
Then I learned how things were for
him! He died before you boys were
born -- in a hit-and-run accident.
He lay all night in the street. It
was dawwwhen they found him. Do
Wheat you like, though. As. far as
I'm concerned, you're free. I have
no advice te give you. But, if you
realiy want to be free, don't come
back to this, house in the evening --

His nerves are on fire. His sons seem to be destroying him.
He is forced to breathe the air of his own death.

JACK
I hate you.

FATHER

I know. The question is, are you
going to do what I tell you to? Do
you want to be the only one who's
out of step -- and make everyone
else unhappy -- just because you're
determined to have your own way?
Then you'll stay indoors.
84.

FATHER (CONT'D)
You just won't have dinner tonight.
None of us will!

Jack looks at his mother. He does not want to bring her any
more unhappiness.

JACK
I'm sorry, sir.

FATHER
Thank you for saying "Sir".
(to his wife)
You know what they say in the Navy.
If you have a grumbling crew, you
have a fit crew. When they don't
grumble, something's wrong.

He will learn to deceive. He will vse coming and guile to
defend himself and get what he wants.

He will never outwardly defy his father. nis defiance will be
inward and therefore harder to root out; first it must be
detected. He will avenge himself in the cleverest way,
without his father's ever knowing it.

INT. BEDROOM
Mr. and Mrs. O'Brien are alone.

FATHER
-- I want to make him strong. I
want him to expect great things of
himself -- to hold himself with the
best. A father gives his child
Strength. will!

MOTHER
They're afraicl of you.

FATHER
They love me. I'm going to make
them do it. I could have had my own
company ~- been a wealthy man. But,
no, we had kids -- I had to take
the first job that came along --
Am I a father, or a faucet?

MOTHER
Why don't you let yourself -- love?

FATHER
(surprised)
I do.
85.

MOTHER
-- Let yourself show it.

He looks away. He is afraid of her love for him. It is too
good for him. He cannot measure up to it.

It seems to him she does not want him but his soul.
INT. LIVING ROOM

When they next see their father, he pretends nothing is
wrong. Does he think they could not hear?

FATHER
What do you want for your birthday ?
RL
You.
His father looks at him in surprise -- this child, so unlike
the others, gentle as a sage ~~ then kisses him. RL alone

does not stiffen under these effusions of paternal love. Mr.
O'Brien feels that he understands the other two, but there is
something about RL which strikes a certain awe in him.

Yet he fears for this child, fears he is impractical; a
dreamer, dawdler. He rides him about a hundred things; for
walking funny, for smiling too long, for hesitating before: he
speaks.

Does his mother love him because he is the weakest, the
tenderest, the mest sivcere:? Sincere people are taken
advantage. of. Dreamers come to nothing.

EXT. CARPORT

. Jack watches his father work on the Studebaker, which he has
raised up on a jack. What would happen if he kicked it out?

-- Christmas scenes. Other houses on the block. Each is a
home. Is his? The singing, the lights -~ ruined by argument,
discord --

SERIES OF ANGLES - STRAIGHT RAZOR - ROUGH GREEN SNAKE

His rage is deep as hell. He studies his father's straight
razor, with its tortoiseshell handle. Afraid of the darkness
rising up within him, he hides it under the sheets in the
linen closet. Alone in his bedroom, he prays:

JACK
Please, God, let him die!
86.

A snake slides through the oak tree, swaying as the wind
blows, matching the movement of the branches.

EXT. O'BRIEN HOUSE (FRONT YARD)
Mr. O'Brien walks outside. Jack and RL are playing.

FATHER
What are you doing playing out
here? Get to work.
(turning to RL)
Did you practice your guitar?

INT. LIVING ROOM - RL WITH GUITAR - JEALOUSY

Jack watches RL practice on a hal€-seale quitar . He is a true
musician, unlike his brothers.

Their mother listens, rapt, as she Aandles steve on her knee.
When RL gets frustrated with his mistakes, she consoles him.

MOTHER
It's alright to make mistakes. You
have to... Perfection isn't
important. Imperfection is
beautiful. Even more beautiful.

Mr. O'Brien sits down at the piano and adds an accompaniment
to RL's melody. Jealousy of his little brother stirs in Jack
again, even as the music brings him back into a presence in
which he had ceased to believe.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOCOp STREET

He remembers wa\ting with RU earlier in the day. He suggested
that they run.

RL
We'll get tired.

JACK
Not me. I never get tired.

RL
You did this morning.

JACK
No I didn't. I was just pretending.
You want to call me a liar?

RL
No. I don't want to fight.
87.

JACK
Afraid to?

RL
No, I just don't want to.

JACK
If I was to say you're scared,
would you want to call me a liar?

RL

No.
JACK

Then you're scared, aren't you?
RL

I guess so... Why do bees hum?

(Jack shrugs)
Because they don't know the words!

Chastened, Jack mumbles an apology. Love takes the place of
envy in his heart. All nature comes alive and answers him
approvingly.

Mrs. O'Brien worries about her. eldest son. Conflict with his
father has caused him to become a glum, inattentive,
disobedient child, always intent on escape.

His life has become a tissue of lies and subterfuge. Thefts,
lust, savage desires. He is lost in this new darkness, and
hardly cares. His is in revolt.

EXT. FRONT YARD
Jack stands witw Wis mother in the front yard.

MOTHER
Look at the tree. It doesn't care
how it seems to others. It just is.
It puts up with storms, rain, bad
weather ~-

The camera plays over the leaves and branches. Ine spirit
lives in root and trunk, branch and leaf.

MOTHER (0.S.) (CONT'D)
A leaf might think it is separate
and alone, but all the leaves are
part of the same unfolding. They
start from the same seed.
88.

JACK
(interrupting)
He tells me one thing. You tell me
another.

Inwardly, she resigns herself to losing her eldest son.

MOTHER
Everything will be all right.

JACK
Then why are you unhappy?

MOTHER
What makes you say that?

He sees the abuse which goodness $uers in ‘this world, the
painful consequences of walking in hi$ motwnec's way. Where
does it lead? To a life of sorrow, forall that he can tell.

What is the value of goodness? How shall it stand against
bullying force? The golden rule allows others to take
advantage of you, to do as they please. It opposes, and can
even destroy, your own happiness.

He remembers Mrs. Kimball telling his mother:

MRS. KIMBALL
You're so kind. I wish that I could
be Like you.

FATHER'S POV ON SONS PLAYING

Mr. O'Brien watches From afar as his sons play with their
mother in the front yatd. Will he grow mean and despicable?
Fall slowly into cvin? Their laughter is like the music of a
lost Eden.

INT. LIVING ROOM

Her brother, their Uncle Ray, has come to visit. Mrs. O'Brien
confides in him, unaware that Jack is listening from the
other room.

MOTHER
A man showed up at the door. A bill
collector. A shady character. He's
been gambling again.

Much of what she says plays 0.S. as her memories are
illustrated, starting with scenes from Las Vegas; quick
flashes of their past experience.
89.

MOTHER (CONT'D)
He is fascinated with cards. He
says they make everyone even. He
over-bets his hand. You know, his
brother is a keno dealer in Las
Vegas. A sweet, gifted man!

(after a pause)

He wants his honor back. His
stature. I could get a job. He
doesn't want me to, though.

UNCLE RAY
It's hard with three boys.

MOTHER

I wouldn't like to veset them.or
change their life. 1 want then to
get a good education.

(sighing)
Compared to ours, his family seemed
so warm and vital. He was earthy,
cheerful. We were happy for a time.

(after a pause)
I tremble to ask him for money. I
come to him like a guilty person.
He makes a fuss over a bent spoon.
He won't do anything to change. I
dread him coming into the room.

UNCLE RAY
Tell him. Either he learns to
behave like everyone else, or... He

Aoess+ know what love is, anyway.

MOTHER
why do you say that?

UNCLE RAY
Leave.

Jack looks up, shocked. Would she? Has he, with his
complaints about his father, contributed to such a desire? He
fears that he might cause the breakup of his family.

UNCLE RAY (CONT'D)
Take the boys with you. Your
patience is wonderful. But what if
it's killing you?

MOTHER
I can't trade their happiness for
mine. It would haunt me... I've

thought about it.
90.

MOTHER (CONT'D)
I still know shorthand. When I
worked at Bendix before we got
married, I could type a hundred
words a minute. I don't know what I
could do now. With three
children... Don't remind me that I
ever talked this way. You're my
only friend. The others, they're
very nice, but I can't really talk
with them. It's a small town.

UNCLE RAY
You can't let it keep you from
living.

MOTHER

He hasn't filed an income tay
return in three yeacs! I'm afcaid
he'll lose his job. tle dciyes the
men under him too hard. Nebedy
likes him. He's not a selfish or a
cold man. But he turns people
against him. He offends them --
almost on purpose. He loves me as
much as he can. What a day it was
when I first saw his real nature.
But he's a good provider. He works
hard. There are two people in him.

She is loathe to reveal to anyone, even her brother, how
unhappy she is, or to betray her husband's confidence.

UNCLE RAY
Do you love. him still?
(she nods)

Bobcould help you.

MOTHER
He'll never pay that back. He
resents it when I ask. So does
Ellen. I wish I'd finished college. -
I dreamt of studying medicine.

They laugh. Flashes of her carefree youth: a ride in a
biplane, spinning at a dance.

MOTHER (CONT'D)
We all had dreams. I want the kids
to get through college. It makes me
happy seeing you.

She has never quite found a stream of fellowship in Waco.
91.

LATER
The boys hear their father arguing with their uncle.

UNCLE RAY (0.S.)
You've worn her out -- made a slave
of her -- crushed her!

FATHER (0.S.)
You come and go. I've put up with
it for years. Get out! Get a job!

THEN

MOTHER (0.5.)
You humiliated him.

FATHER (0.5)
It will do him good. Eyeyone has
to do his part. Your brothers come
to spend three days, they end up
staying for six months.

She watches as her brother goes off.
EXT. O'BRIEN HOUSE - LAWN - OAK TREE - NIGHT

Only the porch light is burning. Jack has slipped out of the
house and is picking weeds. The night is so vast: he begins
to weep. He puts his face in his hands. He bows to the oak
tree.

His mother appears. he turns around, startled. She is lovely
in her flowing Might aowna,

MOTHER
What are you doing?

JACK
Picking weeds.

MOTHER
Now? At night?. Why?

JACK
So you'll stop fighting.

Will she leave? He has begun to guess the depths of her
unhappiness. Taking him by the hand, she leads him back to
the house.
92.

JACK (CONT'D)
Momma -- listen -- I'll make you
proud. Happy. Here at home. In
school. I won't stop until I do!

He will take her tears away. She shakes her head. That is not
what she wants.

MOTHER
But I want you to be happy. I don't
want you to feel you have to do
anything for me.

His efforts to make her proud have go fac had the ironic
consequence of causing her endless worccw-

JACK
That's not enough. 1 can do more.
MOTHER
Be good to your brothers.
JACK
I will. I swear it. But -~- will you
help me?
MOTHER
Yes.
He thinks of his father.
JACK

I nate him. I wish he were dead!
He quakes all over. I+seems he has all hell in his heart.

JACK (CONT'D)
I'll Kitl him if you want!

MOTHER
Your father! I don't want you to
hate him. I want you to love him.

JACK
Do you?
(she nods)
How?

She does not answer right away. He throws himself against a
closed door.
93.

JACK (CONT'D)
Why? Why? Why did Johnny Baden push
me down? Why did Uncle Ed not come
back? You told me it would be all
right! Why does he hurt us? Is it
me? Something about me?

MOTHER
There's nothing bad about you.
Forgive him.

JACK
Have you?

MOTHER
Think of the good shinas ne does
for us. For others —

EXT. POOL (BARTON SPRINGS) - QUICK ANGLES (MEMORY)

Milton Stone, a boy Jack's age, is swimming an underwater
race at a public pool when, suddenly, he turns over on his
back and floats up to the surface, his arms thrown wide. The
other boys think he is kidding and splash him with water
until they see his lips are blue. Panic spreads. Many shrink
away, but Mr. O'Brien comes forward to take command of the
situation- He calls for an ambulance. He breathes into
Milton's mouth. The boys stand in the shallows, hold hands
and say the Lord's prayer. Jack looks left and right, proud
of his father, who gazes at Mrs. Stone with a heartfelt
sympathy.

EXT. PORCH — RESUMING THE FOREGOING SCENE - NIGHT

Jack marvels at\Wis mother, She seems never to want anything.
She does not vacy, like their father; is constant in temper.

JACK
We're not a happy family, are we?
We were before. Will our family be
like Howard's?
(she kisses him)
Now, at school, when I see good
kids, I want to be bad.

She is silent for a moment.

MOTHER
I don't know all things. I haven't
been everything a mother should be.
But a parent learns. She has to
grow up, too.
94,

MOTHER (CONT'D)
There are a lot of hard things in
this world. I wish I could keep
them all away from you.

JACK
Have I done anything wrong today?

MOTHER
No. Things may seem bad now, but
they won't always be this way.
We're on our way towards something
good. We'll go away this summer and
rent a cabin by the lake. Dad will
tell you about the places he's
been. And I'll tell you abovt the
day when I was a g\ and a
rhinoceros escaped from ve Fair.

A rhinoceros rambles through an [llinois cocn field.

MOTHER (CONT'D)
We'll build a fire and stay up
late. We'll watch the stars, and
sing --

INT. LIVING ROOM

Mr. O'Brien is baffled by thé opposition which he creates for
himself. Home should be a haven from the world's contempt.
The ingratitude of children can drive a man to madness.

He keeps the family's life from being either comfortable or
tedious. They \iveinoa: continual state of uncertainty. In
his better moods he ig their comic. He plays the piano like
Harpo Marx in "A Night ak the Opera." He lights a cork, blows
it out and apeliesthe Aack ash to his upper lip to create a
dandy's moustacne. tte puts on airs and acts out dramas. He
sits at the piano and makes it all up as he goes along, like
a little opera.

Mrs. O'Brien laughs as he leaps over the sofa, fencing now.
He is like a’child himself, with sudden spasms of craving for
physical affection -- for proofs of a sentimental love.

Jack remembers other times when he has felt close to his
father. How precious, how wonderful those hours were! Lying
on the car seat and listening to him sing to himself at the
steering wheel as they went on vacation --

FATHER
Come on! 345 x 78. Visualize it.
Try again. In your mind. You're not
trying. Pay attention. Trust me.
I'm doing this to help you.
95.

FATHER (CONT'D)
What is it? I want you to stand
there till you tell me.

RL stands in place until the sun goes down. Steve turns to
his father.

STEVE
Who are you?

Mr. O'Brien looks at him, surprised.
EXT. KIMBALLS' HOUSE - WIND CHIMES

Jack notes how Mrs. Kimball's thin cotton dress clings to her
in the heat. She drinks from a hose.“Tne water flows over her
bare feet.

MRS. KIMBALL.
You want a drink?

He shakes his head. She is a kind, lovely woman; shy.

Later, he paces back and forth outside the Kimball house,
until he sees her through the open drapes.

Later still, as night is falling, he walks past the Bates',,
eager to see more. There is an odd gray flicker on the
ceiling in the living room. TV has entered the neighborhood,
though no one thinks much of it and only the Bates have a
set.

EXT. WELLS' HOUSE
Howard has a jook of dread on his face. Jack frowns.

HOWARD
Dad’s come back.

Jack is transported to +he scene in Howard's recounting of
it. .

MR. WELLS (0.S.)
What am I doing? Minding my
binness. Go cut a switch.

Howard cuts a switch off a willow tree. Mrs. Wells closes
herself up inside her bedroom.

Howard watches his father come towards him; no, not a father
but a beast of wrath and sensuous intoxication. As the blows
fall, the boy's cries excite him to greater cruelty.
96.

MR. WELLS (CONT'D)
(chewing gum)
Lick the floor with your tongue.
Pay! Somebody's going to pay!

He takes Howard outside and shoves him down into the storm
cellar, shuts the door and sets the chow to guard it. In the
darkness below, Howard wails and weeps and pounds his face
with his fists. Daddy, Daddy! Please, Daddy! He clenches his
fists and beats his chest and begs heaven to protect him. It
goes on until he can scream no more but gasps for breath.

HOWARD
Dear God! Help us! Please!

NEXT DAY
The next day Jack listens as RL tetls *neit mother:

RL
We learned in school the sun is
going to die. The earth, too. Is it
true?

MOTHER
Maybe -- but such a long time from
now it doesn't matter.

INT. SCHOOL ROOM - JACK

Math, geography; boundaries and rules. Day by day, the adult
world closes ité¢el€ about him.

He gazes at Marsha.So this is love. Where might it lead you?
It is like returning +o your original state -- like being
healed.

EXT. CITY - A LATE AFTERNOON IN MAY

The boys are playing outside when the wind comes up. In the
south the sky has turned black.

The branches of the oak tree rise and fall. The wind grows
stronger. Shep looks up, puzzled. A newspapec: flies through
the street. The boys drift inside. The windows move as if
they were breathing. The radio announces an approaching
storm.

TORNADO - STOCK (35MM) - DUSK, NIGHT
A tornado bears down on the town. There is lightning, then

hail; big hailstones that bounce off the street. The wind
makes a roar like a train.
97.

Lawn furniture, toys and garbage cans are swept along the
street. The front door rattles until it seems the glass might
break. The laundry line flies out like a flag.

A tree has fallen in the middle of the street, illuminated’ by
the headlights of a swerving car. Downed power lines spew
showers of sparks. Everyone is soqlemn and still. It seems
some elemental violence has come forth to threaten good and
wicked alike; a great power ready at any time to sweep down
on men with an unbridled cruelty, tearing the life and hope
out of them, destroying the labor of their years.

The hailstones split the windshield of a car, smash leaves
and branches off the trees. The doors fly open. Curtains are
sucked out the window. There is a chaos of thunder and
lightning. At length the power q0¢$ ovr. Thei¢ mother appears
with a candle and leads them away from the wudows- The flame
wavers, threatens to go out.

The radio narrates the rest: how an elecbrician working on
the roof of a building downtown fell five stories when it
collapsed and walked away, -how all went black as power lines
popped like strings. The National Guard has been called out,
the horn of a flattened truck is still blowing, etc.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD ~ EVIDENCE OF TORNADO'S PASSAGE

The next day the children are out in the streets with the
grown-ups, noting signs of the tornado's passage: the clothes
of strangers hanging from the branches of a tree, a chair, a
tricycle too: a catfish sucked up from the lake and dropped
on the lawn; a tree struck by lightning, split down the
middle, stripped of it§ leaves and bark.

A house has been tossed into a field down the road, its
intimate Contents Scattered through the street. A car lies
demolished while aeyt to it another has gone untouched. A
vase stands vadisturhed, in a demolished room. Strangers stare
at a family which has \ggt its home. The full wrath of the
skies has descended on them alone.

RL
How does it pick?

Uprooted trees lie scattered like bowling pins. It is as if
the fabric of reality had been torn away, and beyond it they
were given to gaze into some abyss of meaninglessness,
futility and terror.

MR. BATES
McKeever died.

MR. KIMBALL
He never did nothing wrong.
98.

A neighbor has died, a man they rarely saw. Jack has no
reaction to this news -- only the fear that she might die.
Where would they be then? Word comes that a hundred and
fourteen others have shared Mr. McKeever's fate.

That night a figure of death appears to Jack in a dream. She
leads him into an abandoned house. She gives Mr. McKeever a
cup to drink.

JACK'S POV ON HIS MOTHER

Jack observes his mother, smiling as she helps RL with his

science project, a model of the solar system. It seems that
in some way she has betrayed him. He €eelg angry at her for
being so vulnerable, so easily imposed voon., When she asks

him to help her carry in the grvcecles, he gcetends ~ not to

have heard and walks away.

LATER - HIS BROTHER'S HAND

As Jack listens to RL practice the guitar, he thinks of his
brother's hand, how it played with the wind outside the
window of the moving car -- how it reached out to touch the
leaves of the tree in the front yard, the bark -- the water
running from the hose and spreading across the smooth
concrete of the driveway ~-

INT. O'BRIEN HOUSE
His mother speaks in a hushed voice into the phone.

MOTHER
Now he's sold our stocks, the few
we move--Dack: is acting up at
Scrool, geting into trouble --

INT. SCHOOL ROOM

Jack competes with a boy named Billy for the title of class
clown. While Mr. Reese is giving dictation, he stands up and
asks:

JACK
How do you spell "the"?

Everyone laughs. He did not ask it as a joke, however. He
genuinely forgot. Marsha looks away: This sort of thing is
not likely to win her favor. She does not return his greeting
in the hall.
99.

EXT. STICKLEYS' HOUSE

Jack stands with Robert and some of the other neighborhood
boys near the Stickleys' garage.

ROBERT
Where are you going?

He can tell Jack is afraid of him.

JACK

We're not supposed to bother them.
ROBERT

Who says? They don't use it,

anyway.

They look at each other a moment, then Jack picks up a rock.
The first one misses, the second does net. They break out in
laughter at the sound of the shattering glass.

EXT. LAUNDRY LINE - WIND CHIMES, MARTIN HOUSE

Jack walks through the clothes fluttering indiscreetly on the
Kimballs' laundry line. Purple martins flit about their happy
home.

EXT. KIMBALLS' HOUSE - DAWN OF HIS MORAL AWARENESS

Jack is playing with the other boys when, out of the corner

of his eye, he sees Mrs. Kimball driving away. He turns back
to their games, dAistcacted now. He knows he must not go into
the house. But the wi6h keeps interposing itself.

The garage isstillanAcool . There are a few wasps stirring
in the corner. He +e$ts. the door. Once again, it is open. In
the distance’ he wears the cries of his playmates.

He hesitates. This might be the first time he has ever made a
simple choice between good and evil, right and wrong.

Who would be hurt by his disobedience? Yet this is the only
thing his mother has ever so plainly and explicitly
forbidden. His heart pounds in his throat. He turns away, but
the wind chimes seem to draw his attention back to the door.

INT. KIMBALLS' HOUSE
Crossing the threshold, he feels a sort of vertigo, a pride

in his cleverness, a wild reckless joy in abandoning himself
to the forbidden.
100.

He wanders through the house examining things, taking care to
put them back in their places. He avoids the eyes of the
portraits on the wall. He passes by the silver and china. He
hesitates before the stairs that lead towards the bedroom.
Dare he up?

What do the adults know that he does not? He longs to leave
his childhood behind.

Inside the master bedroom all stands in impeccable order.

He looks through Mrs. Kimball's cosmetics, then discovers the
chest of drawers where she keeps her clothes. His breath
grows quick and shallow.

He opens a drawer. He gazes at the folded garments. He takes
out a nightgown.

Suddenly, a noise. He looks up, starts to leave, then sees to
his surprise that he has left the drawer open. He closes it
quietly.

With the craft of a burglar, he does not go back the way he
came but unlatches a screen and slips out a window at the
back of the house, into the holly bushes with their sharp-
tipped leaves.

EXT. KIMBALLS' HOUSE —

Outside, he stands alone, breathless. Has anyone seen him? He
glances at the gazing ball on its stand in the backyard.

Uncertain what +o do with the nightgown, he hides it under a
board at the edge oF the woods. His eyes dart left and right.
No normal boy would do this. Of that he is sure. He should
have stayed outof the house. He chose not to. He knows.

Nature, which once sang around him, is silent now. And yet he
feels a subtle alteration in himself; a freedom, with new
powers of reason and understanding. So this is how they see
the world!

With the opening of his eyes, new hopes awaken, the promise
of new joys, their taste so sweet in his anticipation of them
that all he has known before seems stale and flat.

EXT. O'BRIEN HOUSE
He looks up. It is his mother, calling him. Her voice floats

on the air, barely perceptible, through the hedges and back
yards. He pretends not to hear. ,
101.

MOTHER (0.S.)
Where are you?

She walks through the yard in the cool of the evening,
repeating the question. Where are you?

He feels conscious of himself, inwardly naked.

He trudges heavily back toward his home. It does not seem the
place he knew before. He hears something like the breath, or
footsteps, of someone coming after him, the voice of a
stranger far away --

NEW ANGLE - MOTHER'S POVS - LETTING GO OF HAND

She gazes at him. Something. is wrdng,. His face is fallen.
Love is not in it.

He looks at her. Does she know? How cen h@ tell her all that
is in his heart? He has broken faith with her.

MOTHER
Where have you been?

JACK
Out in the woods. With Cayler.

Once he starts, he cannot stop.

JACK (CONT'D)
We found some bottles. We broke
them, Brown bottles.

MOTHER .
What is it) Sweetheart?

He does not answer, A ¢ jJoud has come over his life. A
burglar, a liar, a thief, in bondage to strange forces, the
good world forever in his past. She would forgive, but he
dares not ask. He lets go of her hand.

The tone and visual style of the picture have grown harder,
more realistic, disenchanted. There are no hints or calls
from the transcendent world he knew in his play. No more.

What ship has carried him off? To what far land?

The change is indicated to him from all quarters: the rotting
peaches on the tree, the grackles gabbing with each other in
their roost, the ‘locked gate, a threatening dog, the porch
light, the wind blowing uselessly this way and that.
102.

The stars and the trees have disappeared. They are no more to
him than the wallpaper in his room. He will never be a child
again.

EXT. OAK TREE

When he goes outside, the oak tree does not speak with him as
before. His own dog Shep looks at him as though he was a
stranger. The little stream of his disobedience has grown
into a river and overspread the earth.

INT. SCHOOL ROOM

When Jack next speaks with his teacher, he is very pleasant
and respectful, if thoroughly ins\ncere. Mr. Reese is
deceived by the change in his behavior.

MR. REESE
Good job.

JACK
Thank you.

And so he learns to make his way in the world. He has begun
to-be aware of how he appears to others and of what they
think of him. That he can shape their impressions of him --
act friendly and compliant, then go right on doing what he
_pleases, leaving them none the wiser.

He will show a petty talent and success in school but alas!,
as a substitute for the real worth that his mother wishes him
to have.

INT. LIVING. ROOM
Jack sees RL at'wock on a watercolor.

JACK
What's that?

RL
I'm painting it for mother. For her
birthday.

JACK
I got her a paperweight.

Later, he looks. at his paperweight. It is not as personal or
imaginative a gift as RL's, though it- cost more. Will she
understand?

She thanks Jack for his gift, but seems to appreciate RL's
more.
103.

MOTHER
How lovely!

The next day, Jack pours water over RL's work, causing the
colors to run. Later, when she asks him not to slam the
screen door, he replies:

JACK
I'm not going to do anything you
say.

MOTHER
We'll see!

JACK

I'm going to do wha} want.
(after a pause)

What do you know? You let him cun

all over you.

He sees that his words have stung her. He looks up at her:
the one who knows him through and through and miraculously
still loves hin. :

JACK (CONT'D)
What's happening to me? I was so
happy before.

Why does he do those very things which injure his mother's
happiness and cause her anxiety? He vowed to make her happy,
to redeem her sorrow. Now he is the chief cause of it! Will
his way lead farther and farther down, into darkness and
night? Already he \eads the life of a spy.

Mrs. O'Brien sees that she has lost him. His soul has drifted
away. He has gerownhard and closed. He has turned from her
way of doing thingSto his father's, though he admires his
father's way less. How soon before the other boys follow?

INT. LIVING ROOM

His mother and father argue. She tries to keep her voice
down.

MOTHER
They're just kids. You can't expect
them to act like adults.

FATHER
Don't they see all I'm doing for
them?
104.

MOTHER
What are you afraid of? They want
to love you.. Why don't you go out
‘and play catch with them? Praise
them when they do well.

FATHER
I. don't want them to get lazy.

MOTHER
You ‘turn people against you. You're
always saying foolish things about
the men above you. You offend them
-- almost on purpose.

FATHER
They need me. More than T need
them.

MOTHER

Why don't you tell me the truth?
(after a silence)
Why do you always have to pretend?

FATHER
Pretend?

EXT. A NEIGHBOR'S HOUSE - DUSK

Jack eavesdrops at doors. He spies on a neighborhood woman
from the darkness outside her house. He holds a sealed letter
up against the Light. He sees a pin-up on a gas station wall.
something is pulling hin away from what is dearest to him.

When RL calls nim to join in their childish games, he shakes
his head. He no fonget cares to follow them into the woods.

EXT. OAK TREE, FRONT YARD

RL whispers to Jack as he fingers the bark of the oak tree in
the front yard.

o RL
I. know we're unhappy now.-- but if
we touch this tree -- listen, it
will tell us!
JACK
What?
RL

Caleecha Makeecha! The words!
105.

JACK
What words?

RL
The ones that will destroy all the
evil in people's hearts and bring
them everything good. They'll be
healthy. None sick! And they'll
never fight again. Listen!

Caleecha Makeecha! He whispers the words to waken the tree,
to persuade it to unfold its secret.

JACK
I don't believe in that stuff any
more.

EXT. BATES' HOUSE

The boys are playing on a slide at the Bates' house. Rusty
Wells has climbed to the top, imagining that he too would
like to go down, only to find that he is afraid.

CAYLER
Everybody. else has!

Jack sneaks up the ladder and gives the trembling child a
push. Rusty falls to the ground with a thud. He looks up at
Jack, whom he trusted as a friend and protector, then bursts
into tears and runs off. Howard does not protest but merely
bows his head and leads Rusty home, walking a few paces in
front of him.

JACK
You okay?

Jack is astonished. T+ is as though a devil had entered him.

JACK (CONT'D)
He was getting in my way.

There are more and more things his mother and father do not
know about him and could not guess; things that he is guilty
of far worse than any they have punished him for.

This darkness in himself, it lies in others too. He remembers
standing in the dusk, listening to Howard cry. His father had
returned home and was beating him with a belt. Why should the
tornado take better men and leave this beast to roam?

Mrs. O'Brien has heard what Jack did to Rusty.
106.

JACK (CONT'D)

Why do I do these things? You're
going to hate me. I want to be like
I was before. I want to be little
again.

She strokes his back, consoling him.

JACK (CONT'D)

I want to be someone else. I always
do stupid things. Sometimes I want
to run away. I'm afraid I'm going
to turn into a killer. Then I'11l
have to kill myself. I mess up. I
don't know why. I can make my. hand
write a word on a piece of paper.
But when I want to act right, I
can't do it. You don't Love me
anymore, Momma. You don't come and
give me hugs like you used to. How
can I be good? Why's it so hard?

She looks at him and smiles. He hears a train whistle far
away.

JACK (CONT'D)
Starting tomorrow I'm going to
change. Mr. Reese is going to give
a silver dollar to the one who
reads the most books. I want you to
be hard with me -- to shout at me.’
I'm ‘na to be a new kid tomorrow.

INT. O'BRIEN HOUSE- RADIO SHOWS O.S.

He turns from the outdoors to occupy his days with the radio,
the Sears catalogue and other things of the world.

INT. BATHROOM

Earlier, he was not embarrassed to go naked in his mother's
presence. Now when she comes upon him getting out of the
shower, he quickly shuts the door.

INT. BOYS' ROOM

One night, for no reason, RL starts repeating his name. Jack
pinches him on the arm, to get him to stop.

RL
Brother.
107.

JACK
When I hit you, you don't hit back.
Why?

His brother is more genial. Why would he not be preferred?

Then the idea sets in. He will punish his mother through her
favorite. He will make himself deliberately and knowingly
unlovable. He will flaunt his worthlessness as a protest.

Now he is alone -- alone with his frailty, with the struggle
of light and darkness in his soul. A tide is carrying him
away from those whom he should love, whose love towards him
has not changed in the least.

EXT. SCHOOL GROUNDS

A student rings the bell for class.

INT. MR. REESE'S OFFICE

Jack's mother has been called in for a conference.

MR. REESE
He interrupts the class. He doesn't
listen to instructions. He's afraid
to finish his painting, or write a
sentence -- afraid it might be
wrong. He copied his report out of
the World Book.

MOTHER
He cheated?

Later, she sees him hit himself in the face in frustration.
She decides it “is time to take steps.

INT. LIVING ROOM
Jack overhears his parents discussing his future.

MOTHER (0.S.)
Maybe we should send him away to
school.

FATHER (0-S.)

We don't have the money... The
other boys can't go. It wouldn't be
fair.

MOTHER (0.S.)
I can work. I could get a job.
108.

FATHER (0.5.)
People would wonder what was
wrong... We'd lose face.
EXT. FIELD
Jack leads his brother out into the field beyond the house.

JACK
I've got something to show you.

RL wants to go back. Something about his manner is odd.

JACK (CONT'D)
We can shoot wasps. ~

Jack has brought his BB gun. He urges his brother to put his
finger over the tip.

JACK (CONT'D)
Do it. Like this. I won't shoot.
Don't you trust me?

RL
You won't do anything?

RL smiles. He puts his finger over the muzzle. Jack
hesitates. Then he pulls the trigger.

RL howls in pain and consternation, looks at his brother,
then runs back to the house.

Jack is sick at heért. It could not have been he who acted in
this way. Something acted on him. But no, he did it, though a
strange he; not the real he.

A new pain enters his Soul, one that his mother's touch
cannot take away.

INT. O'BRIEN HOUSE - LATER

RL does not look at him. Never again will he get back to that
garden where their spirits mingled as one. He has trampled on
all that is dear.

JACK
I got told on.

Even Steve is wary of him.
109.

TIGHT ON HIS MOTHER

JACK
It was an accident.
MOTHER
No, it wasn't. What got into you?
He wants to’ confess -- all but those sins he feels ashamed
of.
JACK

You always loved him more.
She will not be put off.

MOTHER
If you've done your prothec wrens;
you can set it right. Be Yad to
him. Do something. Go.

INT. BOYS' ROOM

Jack gives RL the thunder egg he treasured. RL is delighted.
He bounces on the bed.

EXT. FRONT YARD

Jack walks out across the front yard and stands under the oak
tree. He is lost to what he was, but he has found something
new.

INT. LIVING ROOM
Some days latec, Jack jeins his parents in the living room.

. FATHER
Come in here. We want to speak with
you. Sit down.

(he does)

We never finished college, neither
I nor your mother. We want you to
have the best education. So we've
decided -- we're sending you off to
school.

He turns accusingly to his mother. She looks away. She does
not wish it. But he has been fighting so much with his
father, it might be the only way to save him from
destruction.
110.

FATHER (CONT'D)
«+-We'll still see you on vacation.
It's just a hundred miles away, you
know. A good school. I've spoken
with the people there. They know
what a good boy you are. But if
we're going to do this, then you
will work. Your brothers --

Jack leaps up and rushes out of the house.
EXT. YARD AND WOODS

His chest heaves with violent emotions5.The trees, the
familiar houses offer no consolation now.

EXT. NEW HOUSE GOING UP

RL leads Jack to a new house that is just: going up at the end
of the block. They slip like ghosts among the sweet-smelling

studs, and wander through the rooms looking for slugs by the

electrical boxes. RL looks at him and smiles.

Robert appears. A moment later RL is crying.

RL
He stole my slugs.

Jack gives him the slugs that he himself has found. Then --
EXT. ROBERT'S HOUSE

He marches over +o Robert's house and punches him in the
nose, knocking him +o the ground.

LATER
His mother speaks with him alone.

MOTHER

I think this will be for the best.
You've been having so much trouble
with your father -- I know you love
him -- and with your classmates at
school. I -- we -- think it might
be better than the school here --
better for you, I mean. We haven't
been good parents, or you wouldn't
be under all this tension. We
should have set you-a better
example. I will miss you very much.
111.

Dimly he senses that she does not want this separation --
that she is doing something that is very hard for her.

She looks at him. The child she expects to have the most
trouble with. At last she must give him into the world's
hands!

EXT. CARPORT

One afternoon Mr. O'Brien returns home early. He asks no
questions of the boys. He does not demand to know if they
have practiced the piano or weeded the beds. His eyes do not
meet theirs. It is the middle of a weekday. It is strange to
the boys that he is home at all.

FATHER 2
Go play for a while, will yous
want to speak to your mother alone.

Inwardly, he seems to stagger.
INT. LIVING ROOM

He sits down in a corner and gazes out the window. His life
now seems to him a folly. The world a fraud. But he might
still have them -- his family -- whom he. took for granted.

Jack hears a muffled cry. At first it seems they might be
having another fight. But this is a new, unfamiliar sound; a
moan. Jack stands in the hall, listens.

FATHER (0.S.)
They're closing the plant. I can
either steike out on my own, or
stay with he company and take
whatever job they offer me. They
expect me to beg.

MOTHER (0.S.)
I'm sorry.

FATHER (O.S.)
We have to think of the kids. Don't
tell them what happened. i don't
want them to worry.

Moved at the sight of his shame and dismay, she touches his
cheek, consoling him. Jack watches through a crack in the
door. Mr. O'Brien trembles with a sense of wonder and
discovery.
112.

FATHER (CONT'D)
I'm not the man I thought I was.
I've driven my sons away from me. I
thought I was making them -- tough
-- so they could live in the world
-- so they could get ahead -- go
farther. I treated them with

malice.

MOTHER
You didn't know what you were
doing.

FATHER

I did. I knew while Lwas doing it.
It was a rational malice. L thought
I could never harm anyone L loved!
I worked my fingers+o the bone.
Six, seven days a week. I titwed at
church. I made the others think I
was something I'm not. And you,
what have I done to you, who've
loved me through it all: someone
lower than a worm.

MOTHER
No.

FATHER
They gave me a choice: no job, or a
job nobody wants. Where did I go
wrong? But this could be an
exci din new opportunity for us. I
Mean, not really being fired,
yusr—-— reassigned . I've gone about
aS facasgI1 can go here. It might
be +tme +o Move on.

Jack sees RL has come up behind him in the hall.

FATHER (CONT'D)

It was my fault. I believed in the
company! What I should have done
was take my life into my own hands.
Now I'm low. In the mud. The
strange thing is -- I feel free!

(taking her hands)
Thank you for loving me!
113.

NEW ANGLE

Jack looks at his mother and father. He waits for an
explanation. He never before has seen him shaken and
bewildered.

RL
What is it?

FATHER
I lost my job. They want to --
transfer me. They don't understand
the business. There are ups and
downs. Everyone knows +hat --

Jack's heart opens towards him.

FATHER (CONT'D)
Do you understand? You Can. You
will! Forgive me. I've behaved so
badly -- I've not only lost the
light myself, but the power to give
it to you -- my children. I've
given you my darkness instead. And
it will take you years to find your
way out of it. I wanted to be
strong! A man you could love --

He looks at them. He sees how much he needs them, more than
the success he craved, more than wealth or prestige.

FATHER (CONT'D)
Can you love me?

JACK
(nods )
I'm aS pad as you are.
(aetec a pause)
I'm more like you than her.

FATHER
No you're not. I can make up for
it. All those wasted years -- it
will be like they never were! The

waste!

(after a pause)
Just work hard. You don't need to
be rich. By God, we've still got
some fight in us yet, boy! We're
not dead yet. Not half dead!

Even in such a moment his father cannot resist a theatrical
flourish.
114.

FATHER (CONT'D)
Now. we'll only be able to, send one
of you away to school. You have to
get through. The way your
grandfather did, when he came to
this country.

JACK
I'll work hard, I promise. I'll
make you proud. I see all you do.
I'm proud of you, Dad.

FATHER
Don't say that -- You boys are all
that I've done in le. Otherwise . I
drew a zilch.
(after a pause)
You're all I have -- allZ want to
have.

He lays his hands on top of Jack's head.

FATHER (CONT'D)
Father, I give him my blessing.
There's so much I can't do, and
haven't done. I give you my son!
Bless and keep him. Bless all the
children.

(to Jack)

Know that, much as I love you,
there's one who loves you even more
-- wholl always guard and protect
you -—

JACK
It's you I want.

Jack throws himself jnto his father's arms. Light spreads
through his soul, the spirit which moved over the chaos; the
first light of creation.

JACK (CONT'D)
Forgive me.

FATHER
Don't say that! How could I -~ not
forgive anyone?

He hugs his father close. He has learned to love and be
loved. In forgiving, he receives forgiveness too.
115.

Forgiveness has given him the key to reality. He sees it now:
love is the answer to evil and sorrow. He will love every
leaf and every stone, every ray of light!

This is the way to the lost kingdom. This is what life will
be: drawing closer and closer to the eternal.

ALONE WITH RL
Jack gives RL his knife, his compass. RL smiles.
EXT. O'BRIEN HOUSE

Jack goes out under the tree in the Front. yard. He sees with
the eyes of his soul. Even sorrow has brovant him good.

SCENES HIS SPIRIT SEES - CRANE AND AERIAL SHOTS

Fields, forests, tall mountains: the world is restored to its
original beauty. His soul has emerged from childhood. He
soars like a god.

His has been a journey into light, into love; out of error
into truth, from grief to consolation, out of death to the
shores of a new, unending life.

The eternal is not one thing, and he another. He grows from
it like a tree from the earth.

EXT. PATIO
Jack finds WmselF alone with his mother.

MOTHER
TL love you, honey -. I'm proud of
You. Eromtime to time you might go
wrong. Dow+ blame yourself. You
have ae wrong in order to grow.

Tears sting his eyes. May he be worthy of her pride!

MOTHER (CONT'D)
We're a family still. Our troubles
-~- can bring us closer. Sometimes
we can't stay where we were. We
have to move on. I know you don't
want to leave this place behind but
something good lies ahead of you.
Something beyond your dreams.

THE FAMILY TOGETHER - LATER’

The family. Together. That is enough.
116.

Mrs. Stickley comes out of her house. It is the first time
Jack has ever laid eyes on her. She is an old woman. She
looks at him, smiles, says nothing. .

EXT. FRONT DOOR ~ DOORBELL

The doorbell rings. Mrs. O'Brien finds their widowed
neighbor, Mrs. McKeever, on the front step.

MRS. MCKEEVER
I heard you all might be leaving. I
just wanted to pay you back ~~
well, a start -- $50 --

MOTHER
Pay us back for what?

MRS. MC KEEVER
(embarrassed)

I thought you knew. Well, f hope I
haven't done anything wrong. When
my husband died in the tornado,
your husband came over and gave us
$1000 so we could keep up the house
payments. You're not upset?

MOTHER
Not at all.

On the contrary, her neighbor has rekindled Mrs. O'Brien's
love for her husband. She had assumed their stocks were sold
to satisfy his gar ‘*'1g debts.

INT. O'BRIEN HOUSE ~A Mowt LATER

They are packing ve sine house, preparing to leave. Jack walks
through the empty fCooms. Already it seems as if they lived
here in some time long past:

FATHER AND MOTHER

Mr. O'Brien sees his wife saying goodbye to her gardenias.
She runs her hand over the bright, waxy leaves.

FATHER
They won't grow in the north.

She nods, comes to his side, smiles.

FATHER (CONT'D)
Let's not fight or blame each
other. Can we start again? I'm
going to make you happy.
117.

EXT. OAK TREE

Jack watches as RL sets an offering at the base of the oak
tree: some rocks, a dead minnow, a coin and a playing card.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD

Jack casts a last, lingering look at the neighbors' houses.
He will never live here again. This part of his life is over.
But now that music comes back which he once heard in the
woods, then ceased to hear; an answering voice.

JACK'S POVS ON FATHER

Mr. O'Brien is back at his old way, rormenting them with
scoldings and arbitrary orders. Yas he Foaottén his great
revelation? Jack's nerves are taux, Lk ‘seems forgiveness must
be an ongoing business.

FATHER

Pick it up by the handle.
JACK

I see.
FATHER

We'll leave at sunrise.
EXT. O'BRIEN HOUSE
It is early morning. They said their farewells to the
neighbors the Mant wefore. The station wagon is loaded up.
The movers have already left.

RL does a rain datce. Steve is in the car. The gate stands
open that leads ovt to the woods.

Jack comes up beside RU and takes his hand. Bending forward,
he kisses his brother on the cheek.

UP ANGLE ON MOTHER - MUSIC ~ A FANFARE

Mrs. O'Brien sees this, smiles. She takes Jack by the hand,
and together they go off, the world before them now.

POVS FROM MOVING CAR

They are pulling away when Shep appears. They almost forgot
him. He wags his tail as he jumps in the car.

The streets of Waco recede behind them.
118.

EXT. HIGHWAY - GULLIED FIELDS - ROAD AHEAD - MUSIC

A rainbow spreads above the horizon as they set out toward
the east, onto the cold plain of the world.

They pass a highway crew: men toiling by the sweat of their
brows. Civilization appears; tall buildings; public works.

Jack gazes at the road ahead; hopeful, expectant.
PART THREE
EXT. CITY - JACK (ADULT) - THE FUTURE

Jack, an adult now, wakes up from his revesie . His soul has
come to life. He sees the order of thinas, the Sanity of the
creative scheme; a moral purpose underly: 4 all.

Now, before his eyes, the future un@olds,
THE WORLD IN RUINS —- THE GREAT TRIBULATION

Scenes from the Congo, from Bangladesh, Iraq and Chad.
Children stranded by a flood; their mute, inquiring eyes.
Dry, abandoned wells. Riots, fires. Grief and dread have
seized the earth.

EXT. NEW EARTH —- THE FAMILY OF MAN

The music shifts to a major key. The C minor of the chaos
section is resolved into a triumphant E flat major as, after
the great Catastrophe, a new earth appears; a new land of the
spirit.

Evil is oveccome, wrong 1S set right. Men lay down their
arms. Manacles are, wadone, Bolts and locks fly open. Black
embraces white, Mushm Jew. Man recovers his lost
inheritance. The sov\ ig reconciled with nature.

Women from Guatemala, India, Kenya, Greenland: they smile at
their children. Scenes of peace and harmony: from the
Dordogne, from Bhutan’ and Switzerland, and other happy lands
where the earth is still a garden.

THE END OF THE EARTH (CGI) ~ BLACK SKY - MUSIC

The last days of the earth. Man has long since left its
surface to seek asylum on worlds yet unknown. The atmosphere
has vanished. The seas have boiled away. The land melts. Lava
streams down the naked hills.

Trumpets sound as the sun swells outward, spewing its last
reserves of energy into the night of space.
119.

The earth skims through an envelope of luminous white gas, in
eventless rounds.

THE DYING SUN (CGI) - PLANETARY NEBULA - TENDER MUSIC

The dying sun collapses to a fraction of its former size, a
white dwarf now.

All man's sacrifices, his work, his suffering and genius are
gone without a trace. Nothing seems the better or worse for
it, nothing improved or diminished. He was here one day,
swept away the next.

The sun, torn from its axis, drifts +heovqn space without
purpose or direction, an undistinguished ciadec glowing with
a faint blue light, no brighter Fran today's full moon.

Behind it, like a lost child, trails a cenant of the earth.
NEW WORLDS, IMAGINARY LIFE (CGI) ~ PANDROMEDA

New worlds spring up from the ashes of the old. New suns,
with new planets in their spheres. Numberless galaxies, in a
universe without center or circumference.

As the universe grows older, life assumes new forms. It runs
like a fire to the uttermost reaches of space and time --
breaks free of its confinement to mortal flesh -- resolves
itself into the unbounded and ethereal -- into spirit, light.

DEGENERATE ERA (CGI) —- A THOUSAND TRILLION YEARS FROM NOW ~—
LAST WORLDS PER\SHING- DEATH OF THE UNIVERSE - END OF TIME

At length these new worlds pesioh Like those which preceded
them. Their mountains bucn like tar. Their suns go out like
candles in the wind. Stars are scattered like chaff, and the
heavens roll up |\Kea scecoll .

The expansion of the universe accelerates. The galaxies
recede out of sight of each other. All but those in our local
group become invisible. Gradually, as they run out of
hydrogen, star formation ceases. Only brown and white dwarfs
remain, with neutron stars, black holes, atoms the size of
the Milky Way, and other bizarre products of this era. With
each passing year they drift farther and farther apart from
each other.

Night sinks into a deeper night. Now and then there is a
burst of light as two dwarfs collide to form a new star.

When there is nothing left to devour, the biack holes
themselves evaporate away.
120.

All dies, even death itself. Time comes to a close, and all
is as it was in the beginning.

Shall the creation leave off here? Has death no purpose,
great as life's?

The same triumphant music accompanies the departure of these
celestial scenes as greeted their arrival at the start of our
story, when the stars were first born. A hymn of joy.

Though all that lives is doomed to die, something yet
remains. Though even our universe is not eternal, there yet
is that which is. .

THE MULTIVERSE (CGI) - MULTIPLE @1@ BANGS— THIRD EXPANSION

From the sadness and gloom of the jas* nlaht, new universes
burst forth, one rising out of the other, a fountain of
light.

Creation is eternal birth. A beginning without end. It
happens in every instant of time.

The same power which burns in the stars and nebulae burns
equally in us. Our being is a miracle, equal with the
creation of the universe, and like the universe, each day is
created anew.

For a third time, the cosmos expands. Universes froth and
dance like bubbles in a pot of boiling water. Most contain no
life -- unstable seas of neutrinos, photons and electrons,
incapable of combinin to form any higher structure -- but
what can we say of +he, countless others?

We have ceviewede whole “of time, in order that we might
see what is wiMhout be hnaing or end -- without growth,
without decay -- elesnt 4. ‘evealing itself in the phenomena
of time -- as active in undoing as in doing.

TIGHT ON JACK (30) - DAWN

The first shafts of dawn reach into the city of desolation.
EXT. CITY ~ CROSSROADS - DAWN

Jack finds himself at the edge of the city. A choice is
offered him: he may either go back into the labyrinth where
he wandered so long, or come out into the unknown and
unfamiliar.

EXT. WALL, RAMPS, DOOR - REIMERS RANCH SET - DAWN

He sees a ramp, a ladder, a gateway, a door.
121.

Gathering his courage, he goes forward. The door is ajar. He
stands at the threshold. There is no sound of life, only the
wind. What lies on the other side? Does he dare to see?

One step, and he is through.
EXT. FIELD BEYOND THE WALL ~ SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC

He stands in a field beyond the wall, which already seems to
lie far behind him. He hears the singing of cicadas. The land
is dry. He looks for water. He will not find it here.

EXT. SLOT CANYON - GOBLIN VALLEY - SLICKROCK (UTAH) WITH TIME
LAPSE OF FLOWING WATER, CLOUDS — CLIMB

He passes through the narrow defile of aslo* canyon. His
heart pounds with dread. He climbs Ancougn ne rock.

He sees a coral snake on the ground. This and other images
from his past gradually take shape -- assume a sense they did
not have before. At last he begins to understand the meaning
and the pattern of his life. Everything seems a clue, an
oracle: the nighthawk overhead, the rising moon, the faint
sound of a guitar.

EXT. STREAM - POOL AMONG PETRIFIED DUNES - DAWN

A stream runs through the rock. He approaches it. A canyon
wren is singing. He kneels down beside the water. He drinks
from it. He bathes his’ face and neck.

We have traveled up the river of time -- ascended, from
nature to the sov\.

Paradise is nota elace here or there. The soul is paradise;
it opens before us; here, today. The humblest things show it.
We live in the eternal, even now.

EXT. SUNFLOWER FIELD

Sunflowers, their heads turned towards their source: the
unseen sun, illuminating all with its bright shafts, pressing
eagerly through chinks and cracks, driving the darkness
before it -- .

EXT. LAND OF THE DEAD - MIST - DUST - CAVE/SEA/CITY/QUARRY —
UTAH SALT FLATS - MONO LAKE ~ GRASSLAND - BOMARZO - DAWN

Dawn tints the high clouds as a fresh wind finds its way into
the land of death, at the end of that road from which there
is no return, where men sit in darkness, where dust is their
food.
122.

The mists dissolve away. Light breaks through a high window,
awakening the dead. The sleepers open their eyes, look about.
They rise up exultant, changed -- fresh as they were in the
days of their youth.

They gather from different places -- all who have ever lived.

They ascend towards the light at the mouth of a cave. They
come out of the city streets where they last walked -- out of

quarries and abandoned factories, and up from the depths of
the sea.

Their faces are covered with ash. Each wears that costume
which indicates his character or occupation while he was.
alive: a ball gown, a cassock, amilitacmM uniform or simply
his Sunday best. One drags a chain; anokher pushes a large
ball. Gradually, as though at the close of ~ masquerade, they
put these disguises aside.

They stop by a pool to wash their faces. Their features grow
more distinct.

They wander over a salt flat. At first the ground is dry and
cracked. Then, with a mounting excitement, they discover
water beneath their feet. Ahead lies a mountain. Rain clouds
stand above its peak.

Shoots of young grass spring up through the hard ground.
EXT. SAND DUNES —- REUNION AND REBIRTH

Men and women embrace in the dawn, reunited at last. Husband
and wife, mother aad child, greet each other in joy and awe.
Eagerly they tell each, other all that has happened. The ages
since they last saw each oe have passed off like a dream.
Here there is no before of after.

EXT. SHORE OF ETERNITY- MUSIC OF UNBOUNDED JOY

They go down toward the shore, entranced by a growing
brightness in the east. They speak with each other in
whispers.

The shore teems with people now. Water laps at their feet. A
crown lies cast down on the wet sand. Mrs. Stone finds her
son, Mrs. McKeever her husband. Jack sees other figures from
his past: Mr. Reese, O.C., his grandmother and his uncle,
Betty and Ruth, Cayler and others: the prisoner, the lame
man, Marsha and Robert. It is as though they were coming
together in one great chorus.

This is the end of the voyage of life. The music sings: all
came from love, to love all shall return.
123.

Jack has crossed over death's threshold, gone beyond space
and time, to some greater life which includes death within
it.

HIS BROTHER

Now, from a distance, he hears that sweet voice which he
trusts most in all the world.

JACK
Brother!

As RL approaches, Jack reaches out and takes his hand. We see
him from the back; never face on.

JACK CCONT’D)
I've found you.

They melt into each other's arms. Here ,1n the eternal, they
have not been apart.

The walls of the world fly away. It can hold them no longer.
They know each other in that which is without end.

MOTHER AND FATHER

Turning, Jack sees his mother, father and Steve looking on.
He leads RL towards them.

MOTHER
Is it you?

RL wipes the }¢aCS From her eyes.

1 MOTHER (CONT'D)
You:

She embraces her lost sen. She touches his hands, his face,
ecstatic. Wonder! Unspeakable joy!

FATHER
My son!

Now, with open arms, his father comes towards him. Love
unites what death and suffering have put asunder. He turns
to his wife. She caresses her child's hair. She looks at the
strangers who are standing by, as though.to ask if she is
dreaming. She looks at Jack. She nods. Her grief is cured.
Her doubts are ended.

JACK (0.S.)
What you are can't die.
124.

The plain and ordinary has become a door to the infinite. He
lives in that which neither comes into being nor passes away.

He takes his mother's hands. The music drops away. He knows
love and not its semblance. The world itself is music now.

ETERNITY
Dawn approaches.

We pass beyond death. We arrive at the eternal, the real --
at that which neither flowers nor fades, which neither comes
into being nor passes away -- that in which we might live
forever. Hitherto all has been mere. \mage, all that we think
solid and permanent. Space, time, evanescent all; images
only, the purpose and last end e\sewhere; tne life of life.

Eternity -- that realm of pure and endless \iqht -- how shall
we represent it? A ladder leading up \nto a tree. Sparks
flying up from a fire. A bridge. A kiss. A solitary island.

A single image might serve better than several combined. The
whole creation in the figure of a tree. The smallest leaf
communicates with the lowest root, all parts feeding on the
same sap, breathing in the same air and sunlight, drawing the
same life up from the darkness of the earth below.

Simple images, captured with a pinhole camera. After the
nervous movements of time, we see that of which time is a
moving picture.

A child; the similamt4 in form between the shape of his ear
and that of an oysters shell , between the cowlick at the crown
of his head anda apkoxry. & lotus, its stalk rising clear of
the water; its \ea®+o which nothing clings. Sequoias. A
rose, unfolding. Life surpassing itself.

A locomotive approaches the end of a tunnel. The light draws
closer. Soon it shall burst out into the day. No longer a
blind mechanism, it has become (quick dissolves, quick cuts)
a river -- living, flowing -- the pure waters of the river of
life, rushing down from a mountain peak.

Winter has passed. The leafless woods our hero wandered in
are green and cool, murmurous with the song of birds.

You separate the true from the false. You, to whom all things
return, from whom all proceed; in whom they are; the
beginning of things and their last end; the goal of each and
all.
125.

The whole of the picture has been a sifting. The chaff flies
away, the kernel remains. Something lives in you that shall
outlast the stars.

EXT. SHORE

As Jack watches, his mother spreads her arms towards her
children, restored to faith and happiness, reconciled to
life.

Now he sees that it was she -- his mysterious guide, the
guardian of his heart, the source of his moral. being. She is
the mother of all creation. All flows out of her; she is the
gateway, the door. She smiles tnrovay a\\ things.

Through her the eternal sought him. From out of her mouth it
spoke. Through her life and actions she brovaht them near it.

MOTHER (0.5)
Fear no longer. You shall find me.

The camera rises with the music's circling strings ~- over
the trees, over the hills and plains. Now there is rest. The
peace of eternity spreads about him, and all is as it was in
the beginning.

EXT. CITY

Rain. Weeds in the cracks of a sidewalk. Children playing. We
are back with Jack in the city. Even in these streets, the
eternal shines. This is God's world, and not an infinite
plain of chaos and soccow after all.

Though he must lina@ here a while yet, he will not despair.
A new life I1es bekoce Wim. A faith which sees through death.

MOTHER (0.S.)
Know that I am.

EXT. O'BRIEN HOUSE

We return to the present, to the noise and confusion of the
everyday, to the place we set out from. We see it now as
though for the first time. What seemed plain and familiar
glows with a radiance it did not display before. We have
found the infinite in the everyday, the commonplace.

Jack looks about. Will the revelation be forgotten? Will it
seem a passing fancy -- a dream?

Inside the house, his father is playing the piano. His mother
has gone into the backyard. A bell sounds.
126.

The great oak tree stands like a sentient being --
thoughtful, benevolent -- looking down on him.

He puts his ear against the trunk and listens for those words
that, it was foretold, would destroy the evil in men's hearts
and bring them good.

The camera rises up through the branches, cranes up and up
until it breaks out of the canopy of leaves into the sky
above.

All ends in peace, as music does. The last chord melts into
ordinary production sound. Time has reappeared; resumed its
sway.

And still the vision is not the Jovenery. Tue real journey has
yet to begin.

Will he give himself to this new life? Does he dare?
A stranger, smiling.

A threshold.

A star.

THE END
