CLOSE ENCOUNTERS OF THE THIRD KIND

 

by

Paul Schrader

PHILLIPS PRODUCTIONS
COLUMBIA PICTURES

COLGEMS SQUARE

BURBANK, CALIFORNIA 91505
TELEPHONE: 213-843-6000
‘oo

~CLOSE ENCOUNTERS OF THE TUITRD KIND

PRE-CREDITS
1 EXT. SITE NEITHER NIGHT NOR DAY

A £og-inshrouded knoll looms up from nowhere. Its outlines
are hazy. An orangish glow hangs on the horizon,

The wind blows, the fog passes, yet nothing becomes clearer.
is this a dream, a memory, a lost world, or one yet to be
‘ound?

Somewhere, in the far reaches of space, music is playing. The
notes drift through space, collide, collude, and pass on.

): The mood is ominous: something is going to happen here.
. —
CUT TO:
END PRE-CREDITS

‘\_) CREDITS

¢
"4 9 OUTER SPACE
The music stretches forward as we plunge into the outer reaches
of space.
Here we drift among worlds yet unseen by man, Meteors flow past,
supernovas explode and planets whirl endlessly about unknown
stars.
CUT TO:
END CREDITS
3. INT. LABORATORY DAY (1975)
The sereen goes to white. A tiny red dot appears then elongates
and loops into a horseshoe formation.
into .
: The white dissolves “bre the pale shaved skin of a man's chest
: ™, and the razor-thin red incision completes its horseshoe shape.
co : Two drops of con;ealed blood ooze out of the incision and are
™ quickly absorbed by a miniature blue surgical sponge.
i A stainless steel clamp pulls back the thin horseshoe Flap of

  

flesh and another clamp, guided by a surgically gloved hand,
inserts a thin elreular sensing, device under the skin, The
flap of skin is replaced over the sensor, * .
3

S

CONTINUED

We are in a sterile white laboratory somewhere in the present.
Soft red and bluc lights pulsate against banks of stainless
steel machincry.

PAUL VANOWEN, grimacing slightly, looks down at the incision
in his lower left breast. ‘Two white-coated doctors, LOU
HEKMAN and HARU MIKO, bend toward his chest, examining and
suturing the incision. VanQwen, seated on a long laboratory
table, wears only grey pin-striped wool trousers.

James Paul VanOwen, age 55, has the studied look of a man in
complete control of his life. The worn lines across his forehead
are matched by the streaks of grey hair which stretch from his
temples to the back of his head. His expression is laconic; it
reveals neither emotion nor attitude. He either.fully approves
of what is now being done to him, or he is a stoicist beyond
compare,

Having implanted the sensor in VanOwen's chest, the doctors
proceed to test it:

A pulsating red oscilloscope--beep, beep, beep--monitors the
newly implanted sensor. Nemut te the oscillescope = spectyesr

 

nugcdls vibrates in the dormant position,

 

Lou Hekman selects several strips of metal from a nearby table
and systematically passes them in front of the implanted sensor.
Copper, steel, gold, platinum. : :

The oscilloscope and spectrograph register different values for
each metal strip. The TECHNICIAN monitoring the electrographs
looks up and nods. He is satisfied.

Hekman returns to the surgical work table. selects another sensor
(a square thermocouple) and walks back to the operating table.
Naru Mike has begun scrubbing and preping a shaved area on
VanOwen's upper left breast, .
Paul VanOwen braces himself for the next incision, Hekman poises
his scapel. .

CUT To: 7%.
EXT, TOM KIESEL'S FRONT YARD MORNING (1960) 3187
Fade in: JTOMKIESEL , a 45 year-old physics teacher at
Clarenceville Community Wigh School, stands in his Crone yard
on a pleasant Saturday morning, Ue is weariny Sears work pants
and a worn blue flannel shire with the sleeves rolled up.
 

CONTINUED
A superimposed title reads:

Clarenceville, Indiana

September, 1960 .
A faded lawnchair and charcoal burner stand on the front porch
of Kiesel's middle-class red brick ranch house. An oversized
1959 Dodse with gigantic fins rests in the driveway ,ené Directly
behind Kiesel waits an old Reo lawnmower.

Kiescl speaks to the camera. He is relating an event which
happened the previous night for an unseen interrogator. His
monologue begins calmly enough, but as he gets into the story
he begins to relive the emotions he felt at the time: curiosity,
uneasiness, then fear, His expressions and gestures guide him
as he relives these terrifying moments:

KIESEL

My wife and I were driving home from the PTA jie.
meeting about 10:00 last night. In fact, I ee
it was 10:00 cause the news had just come on the
radio. I d trying to relax,
Welze try issuc for enue new
Science Building and being head of the department
I had to justify the expense. As I said, it was
pitch dark and I was trying to let my mind go blank.
Janice and I were coming back on Three Mile Read.
She sensed it first. We had just passed Mill and
she said, "Look at that light." There was a sort of
dim glow to our right and rear, She said, "That
must be one of those UFOs." I was just about to tell
her it must be a helicopter when it pulled alongside
of us and I could see it wasn't no helicopter at all.
It was gliding very smoothly about 500 yards to cur
right, About 50 yards above’ the trees. That would
be north, There was ne doubting it cause it was the
only light in the sky. At first I figured it muse
be an illusion, I pulled the car to the shoulder
and cut the engine to get a better look, Then I

‘heard it--nothing at all. You know, if you're in the
house alone at night and everything is still, there
still are the sounds of the living. But this thin:
was there and there weren't even the sounds of the
living, It was an erie perfeece quict, like nothing
at all. Janice started to get scared, The lights
of the car went out and T started to get seared Low,
but I didn't wane Janice co know, I got out of the
ear and the first thing chat hit we was the hear,
There was heat everywhere, Like Io was in the middle
of the desert--warm, dry air. 1 started toward. the
object, lt had stopped and was hovering directly in

(coN''T)

  

 

 

  

 

 

 
 
4

CONTINUED

KIESEL

(con't)
front of me about 100 yards above the ground.
I was a pilot in the War and saw a lot and thought
I wasn't scared of anything, but let me tell you
I was scared then, I've seen just about every
kind of aircraft there is and this was like noth
I had ever seen, It started to move slowly toward
me, still not making a sound. It looked like two
huge pot covers placed atop each other...like this.
It was made out of a dull grey metallic substance,
like pewter or platinum, Right on top there was a
raised portion, like a hub, you know, and where the
two pot covers met there was a thin row, not a row
exactly, more like a continuous band of blue light.
It slowly kept coming closer and I wanted to run
but my legs wouldn't move, I didn't know what was
going to happen, Later Janice said she tried to
start the car but it wouldn't turn over. The object
was blotting out the whole sky, then it suddeniv
shot up vertically at. a fantastic speed. In a cot
seconds it gonc, It headed northeast. i folic
its azimuth with my hand and it covered at !eest
thirty degrees in two seconds, which, if I know
anything, would put it at at least 5,000 miles per
hour. Listen, I've flewn a dozen different planes
and studied astronomy and I know that wasn't no kinc
of plane or star or meteor. It was something else.
officers, but I don't know what. L've never seen
anything Like it before. I'm a good Christian man .*---.
I don't lie.

 

 

 
  
   

 

. .
Kiesel stares forlornly at the camera a moment, waiting for an
answer which doesn't come,

TIME CUT; two Cleenceville police officers, HALEY LAWSON and
JONN GOUDA, wave goodbye to Kiesel and walk across the lawn to
their patrol car. Kiesel watches them get in,

INSIDE THE PATROL CAR, Lawson starts the engine as Gouda thunps
his note pad against the dashboard in nervous frustration:

GOUDA
Je-sus.

CUT TO:
INT. POLICE STATION DAY

The small Clarenceville police station is a hubbub of activity
as Officers Lawson and Gouda enter.

A motley assortment of businessmen, tecnagers and housewi¥es
are gathered ‘about a few beleaguered note-scribbling officers.
Their gestures and agitation indicate they are describing their
encounters with flying saucers. Clarenceville is in the vniddle
of a UFO flap.

Amid the clammer of voices one woman's voice stands out:

ANONYMOUS WOMAN
Well, I know it was a UFO because right across
the side were the perfectly clear letters: U-F-0.

CLAUDE AMES, who had been listening in on the UFO witnesses, walks
over to Lawson and Gouda as they enter. Ames, a 25 yearsold
stringer for the Chicago Tribune, is "well-dressed" in the fashi

of the day: irridescent blue rayon trousers and a pink striped
tap-collar shirt.

AMES

Keering you boys busy?

LAWSON
Ames! You here already?

AMES
Word travels fast. The Indianapolis Bureau said
you were having a UFO flap down here.

GOUDA
Then you know as much as we do.

AMES
Whexe you coming from?

LAWSON
Tom Kiesel's place. You been there yet?

AMES
Yeah, Stopped by on the way in. Wow many eye
witnesses do you have?

LAWSON
Couple-four su far. Kiesel and his wife, the

junior high lid who took the picture and Loraine
Blakely, but she's crazy anyway « What do you think?
5 CONTINUID

AMES .
t About the UFOs?
‘ LAWSON
: About Kiesel. You talked to him,
j
: AMES

I'm not paid to think, You can understand
that, Gouda.

GOUDA
Nerd.
} LAWSON
Seriously.
poo: AMES
i I'm waiting until the Air Force comes. Maybe

{ it's a sputnik or some sort of weather ballon.

ds * GOUDA

Ne Whore the Ais Forse?

—
res
20

Police Caption JOHN MAPLE, a harried man about 40, interrupts their
conversation:

MAPLE
You free, Lawson?

LAWSON
What's up?

” MAPLE
Go over to Jack Estes' place. He's been
calling up every fiftcen minutes,

LAWSON
What happened?

MAPLE
More of them...
(can't say the word)
.. Whirlymajigs.
: ) GOUDA
_ - Flying saucers?

— MAPLE
i Yeah, -
Captain Maple walks off, Lawson turns to Ames:
 

cee ee

5

CONTINUED

LAWSON
That makes five,

AMES
Can I join you boys on this one, Haley?

- LAWSON
Sure. Come along.

CUT TO:
EXT, | CLARENCEVILLE MAIN STREET DAY

Lawson, Gouda and Ames cross the sidewalk in front of the
station and climb into a police car.

Clarenceville is what writers would call a "sleepy little town,"
except this morning it's wide awake. The camera tracks dow
the main street, picking up some local color:

--A large pester of Richard Nixon hangs in the window of the
storefront Republican campaign headquarters. Underneath the
hate are omblonened the words "Integzity’ and 'Monescy.”

Passing a nearby telephone pole we see a flyer bearing an

unflattering picture of John F. Kennedy. It reads: "Can a2

Catholic be President?"

           

--Down the strect a cluster of preteen boys hang over their
bicycles. A transistor radio hung over one of their handle
bars plays "Itsy Bitsy Teenie Weenie Yellow Polka Dot Bikini."
They joke with each other, imitating the motions of flying saucers

--A car of curiosity seekers ambles down the street,

--Three or four local merchants weightily discuss the recent
developments, .

CUT TO:
EXT. JACK ESTES' FARM DAY

JACK ESTES, a 60 year-old farmer, is leading Lawson, Gouda and
Ames across the fields behind his farm. His house, barn and a
scattering of farm animals can be scen in the distance.

Estes, a garolous old galoot, is dressed in ragtag work clothes.
Nis crusty dalmation stands by his side.

the officers listen tolerantly as Estes relates his expansive
tale: -
=

CONTINUED

ESTES
(gesturing)

It came over this way, just over the trees,
bobbin and a weavin like a fish on a line. At
first it was all big and round, like a giant
cookie, then it flattened out and glowed all
pinkish, sort of, and made a horrible screechy
sound--screrece! Scared me and my dog Jim here.
All the animals were just whoopin and a brayin.

(CONT)

Estes leads the trio to a circle of matted and slightly singed
grass. This is somewhat surprising to them, since they had

assumed that it was Estes' senile imagination, not the flying
saucer, which had taken flight. Lawson and Gouda examine the

ground,

ESTES

(con't)
It was right here she landed. This is a small
cifrle, but the saucer wes much bigger. This
heré is where the exhaust came out.

GOUDA
The exhaust?

ESTES :
Like a blue or purple flame, like a gas burner.
I didn't know what they wanted but they weren't
gonna get it from me. TI hit back toward the house
to get the 12 guage, And it was when I came back
that I noticed Nell III was gone.

11 LAWSON
Nell? .

. ESTES .
The Third. My cow. The First and Second ame
died off. She had been grazing right out here
where the saucer came. 1 was going to run her
in earlier, buc I didn't. Now she's gone,

- LAWSON
. (looking around)
She must be around here somewhere, Probably
just got spooked,

ESTES
Nope. I looked all over. She's gone alright.
They took her,
 

em

Lo

CONTINUED —

they? LAWSON
hey?

ESTES
The space creatures. They was gone when I
came back--and so was Nell.
(Looking around)
Whatsthematter? Don't you believe me?

GOUDA
(dense)
I think it's a buncha hooey.

ESTES
You callt me a lier?

LAWSON
No, Mr. Estes. It's just a little hard to
believe that space creatures came and took
your old cow,

ESTES
Amon gets his cow stcle and the police won't
do anything avout it, Shee-it.

LAWSON
(calming him)
Now, Mr. Estes.

ESTES
(angrier) .
What country is this? Is this the United States
of America? Is this the land of the free? Is
this a country where a man can get his cow stole
and the police stand around farting into the wind?

In an effort to. calm down Estes, Lawson gets out his pad and
pencil and says officiously:

LAWSON
Alright, Mr. Estes. Now exactly what did Nell
TIL look Like?

CUT TO:
 

10.
EXT. CLARENCEVILLE MAIN STREET AFTERNOON

One night of sightings has turned sleepy Clarenceville into
a circus town. The main street is jammed with cars and
curiosity-seckers. They strain their necks out the windows
windows, gawking at the pedestrians, who gawk right back.

All the fringies has descended upon C1arenceville: the curious,
the sick, and the UFOphiles. One enterprising man has parked
his battered old Plymouth "UFOMOBILE" at the curb and is hawking
all manners of outlandish UFO literature ("I Made Love to a Space
Creature) from his open trunk.

Further down the street a congregation of the infirm patiently
awaits its extraterrestial savior, One woman is on crutches,
another man in a wheelchair, and so on, :

Giant hand-lettered signs have been tacked up here and there

reading:
. Prof. Robt. Allen Smith
will lecture on the subject
"Flying Saucers Are Real"
tomorrow night at Sloan: Field
$1 8:00 pm

As the camera tracks past the window of the Clarenceville Press,
we see Claude Ames inside talking on the phone.

CUT TO:
INT. CLARENCEVILLE PRESS AFTERNOON , ,
Ames has a coffee cup in one hand and a telephone in the other.
Notes and photographs are scattered across the desk beside him.

A CRUSTY OLD LOCAL REPORTER watches him without-comment from a
worn office chair,

AMES
Don't worry, don't .worry, I'll file the rest
by 10:00.
(a beat)

It's a goddam.circus down here, Harry. Every
sickic within fifty miles has shown up hoping
to get a cure,

(a beat)
Extraterrestial vibrations, I guess. The lane,
the halt, the blind, they're all here, Is it
always like this after UFO flaps?

(a beat)
No, the Air Force isn't here yee,

(CON'T) :
|

’

t

9

CONTINUED

.The reporter

11.

AMES
(con't) .
They're sending some people? Great. They
should be here now, These UFO reports are
like fish stories, they keep getting bigger.
(a beat)
I don't know, Harry, it's strange. It's like
somebody's Pen eae) ee on this whole town.
a beat
OK, OK, I'1l stay with it. Don't worry. Talk
to you later.

Ames hangs up the phone and turns to the crusty reporter:

AMES
The Air Force is sending some investigators.
nods expressionlessly.

AMES
Did you ever have anything like this in
Clarenceville before?

OLD REPORTER
No, sir. Not that I remember,

AMES
Did you see any UFOs?

OLD REPORTER
Yep.

AMES
What are you going to do?

OLD REPORTER
I'm going to write a book about it,

AMES
Nave you filed your story?

OLD REPORTER
Nope,

AMES
Have you notified the police?

OLD REPORTER
Nope,
on

9

10

12.

CONTINUED
AMES
(enthused)
Can I have the story? I'm a stringer for
the Chicago Trib.

OLD REPORTER
Nope.

AMES
Why not?

OLD REPORTER
I'm saving it for my book,

Ames turns and throws up his arms in frustration.
: CUT TO:
EXT. DAYTON CHURCH MORNING ,

A stately white colenial church. Organ music sifts softly
throug! the morning air. Middle America on a Sunday morning.

SUDDELY, the doors swing wide open and the organ music pours
out into the street.

ND HEXRY SCHUUR, about 50, steps outside and greets his
eners as they file past.

REVERE
paris

 
 

Among his parishoners are Air Force Lieutenant Paul VanOwen, ase
40, his wife SHARON and their 8 year-old daughter BECKY. VanOwen
shake hands with the Reverend and strides briskly outdoors.

. .
VanQven is wearing regulation AF shoes, trousers, shirt and tie
with a patterned summer sportcoat. As he steps out into the sun
he seems not only much younger than when we first saw him, but
also more casual and easygoing. The brooding gaze, the defensive
gait, the grey hair and wrinkles are all still years in the future.

Wet . . .
A shiny new regulation blue USAF,Chevrolect station wagon is waiting
at the curb For VanOwen. The words “Air Force Intelligence Center,
Wripbe-Patterson AFB, Dayton, 0." are stenciled on the door,

Behind the wheel, $/Sgt. BILL NIGBY, about 30, waits for VanOwen.

Paul VanOwen, removing his sportcoat as he walks, strides direetly
toward the station waron, Nighy gets out of the car ‘and holds out
a freshly pr d Air Foree coat and cap for VandOwen,

vec hunges Cor .
VanOwen pives-Hipby his sportcoat and-pues-ow his AF coat and cap.
Ne is now in full dress uniform,

 
~~

ae

11

13.

CONTINUED

VanOwen kisses his wife and daughter goodbye, He gets behind
the wheel and drives off with lligby. Sharon and Becky watch
the station wagon pull away,

CUT TO:
EXT. HIGHWAY _ MORNING
The station wagon heads south toward Clarenceville.

Seated beside VanOwen, Bill Higby loads a 35mm still camera.
Higby is a recognizable type: the constipated career officer.
The kind of guy who can read a paperback novel without once

eracking the spine. :

A stack of papers, files and newspapers lies on the beat between
them, On top is a folded copy of the Sunday Chicago Tribune.

It carries a 3-column photo of the Clarenceville UFO (aa ill-
defined glowing object) and the headline, "Indiana Town Gets
UFO Fever," The story carries Claude Ames'- byline.

The rear of the station wagon is stacked with suitcases, boxes,
files, forms and electrenic equipment.

VanOwen and Higby sit comfortably beside each other. Their
relationship is a professional one; they have worked together
for some time and feel no particular need to make conversation.
Higby finally breaks the silence:

: 1 HEGBY ¢
Sorry westet to pull you away from your
family like this...

” VANOWEN
Ah, nothing lost anyway. Just another Sunday
afternoon at home. This is much more interesting.
How does it shape up? .

HIGBY .
Average. 1 was going through some of the reports
before. Some good, some bad, There's one nice
report from a physics teacher, and a couple of
looney ones. There's one real zinger.

VANOWEN
An all-timer?

: HIGRY
Not quite an all-timec. Jwraine Blakely,
something, of the town crackpot, She says it's
all an atlempt to defeat Kennedy. The space
people told her so, She savs Nixon was sene by
14,

CONTINUED
VanOwen nods knowingly and keeps driving.
CUT TO:

INT. POLICE STATION DAY

VanOwen, Higby, Lawson and Captain Maple sit and stand in
Maple's office. .

Nighy has a camera round his neck and takes pictures of Maple
and Lawson as they talk. In fact, we'll find he snaps the
picture of just about everybody he meets.

MAPLE
I sure appreciate your coming Lieutenant
VanOwen. This has been one helluva mess.

Vanowen is checking off several names he has written on a notepad:

VANOWEN
Let's see who we have for sure, There's Tom
Kiesel and his wire Janice, there's Jimmy
Simpson, the kid who teak the pieture, Lorains
Blakely, whe T'aa going to put ofZ calning Lo
as long as possibie, and Jack Estes, the suy
with the cow. . :

LAWSON
Nell IIL.

MAPLE
Yeah, but I wouldn't take old Jack too seriously.
A couple years ago he was convinced the Chinese
Reds were stealing his carrots. He said the
Chinese had dug a hole through the center of the
earth and that they would crawl up by night, sec,
and grab the ends of his carrots by the roots...
(gestures)
and, zip!, yank them back down to China, We finally
had to send Gouda out there for a whole night to
watch Jack's carrot patch with him before he was
convinced. .

~
VANOWEN

Whew, you got ‘tom alright. UFO sightings always

bring the loonies oue of the woodwork. But T

want to check out this Jack Estes thing, anyway.

There's supposed to be some secondary evidence.

(a bear)
Did anybody get che negatives from the kid who
shot the picture?
12) CONTINUED

15,

LAWSON
No.

VANOWEN
We'll have to do that, All the evidence is
government property. We have to go over everything.
(to Maple)
Can I borrow Officer Lawson here for the day?
It'll make things easier.

MAPLE
Take my whole force. You can't imagine what
it's been like the last day and a half.
(seriously)

‘What exactly did happen here, Lieutenant? -

VANOWEN
I don't know, That's not even my job. I'm
just a field investigator. I just collect
all the facts and pass them on.

LAWSON
I'21 tell you, Lieutenant, I'm starting to be

~

+ belief this stuii iyseif,.

VANOWEN
Is the reporter from the Chicago Trib still
in town?

. LAWSON
Claude Ames? Sure. I think so.

» VANOWEN
I'd like to talk to him too, In addition, we'd
like to have all the witnesses, any witnesses at
all, get together for a general meeting here
tomorrow morning at 9:00,

They move toward the door,

VANOWEN
One other thing, Captain,

MAPLE
You name it, Lieutenant.

VANOWEN
Please instruet your officers not to speak to
anyone from the news media, This is an official
Air Force matter now, There may be Top Secret
information involved, Who knows what we're dealing
with?) There may even be national security consid-

eratiave W dee Uvernren tA Wan aveteeevenntenel Frye crunsrveae mane Faves
‘12

13

14

16.
CONTINUED
MAPLE
Of course.
CUT TO:
EXT. CLARENCEVILLE MAIN STREET DAY

VanOwen, Higby and Lawson makes their way through the pedestrians
toward VanOwen's station wagon.

As they walk they find a town increasingly gone carnival. Newsboys
hawk a special "UFO Extra" of the Clarenceville Press. Simpson's
drug store advertises its "UFO Sundae." The posters promoting
Prof. Smith's UFO lecture have been updated to read "tonight."
Tourists walk in packs down the sidewalks.

A bumper sticker on a passing out-of-state car reads:

“FLYING SAUCERS ARE REAL
THE .AIR FORCE DOESN'T EXIST

VanOwen threws his arms around Higby and Lawson in a friendly

facture os they walk,
CUT TO:
INT. “JIMMY SIMPSON "g HOME DAY

A MONTAGE SEQUENCE shows VanOwen, Higby and Lawson interviewing
various UFO witnesses.

They STL stand in the Simpson's middle-class living room as
VanOwen admiringly examines the Brownie Starflex with which
the 12 year-old JIMMY SIMPSON took the UFO photo. Jimmy's
proud PARENTS watch on.

VanOwen places Jimmy's negatives into an envelope marked "Top
Seeret." Higby takes a picture of Jimny posing with his 8x10
glossy and his beaming parents.

 

 

CUT TO:
EXT. JACK ESTES' FARM DAY

VanOwen and Higby colleet dirt and grass samples from the areca
where Estes claims the flying saucer Landed, VanOwen and Lawson
walk across the landscape Listening tolerantly to the cxpansively
gesturing, Estes as lligby snaps more photos. .

  

Estes poses with an artist's representation of the UFO he saw
and Uigby takes his picture, :
pe

15

16

7.
CONT INUED-

Here, as in Jimmy Simpson's home, VanOwen's modus operanti
seems designed as much to make the witnesses feel important
as it is to get the facts. Van0wen has been selected for
his job because his talents are psychological as well as
technical.

CUT TO:
EXT. COUNTRY ROAD DAY

VanOwen, Higby, Tom and JANICE KIESEL walk across a grassy

area fifty feet off the side of a two-lane country road. Tom
is talking, VanOwen is dudifully listening and Higby is snapping
pictures.

They turn and walked back toward the shoulder where VanOwen's
station wagon and Kiesel's ‘59 Dodge are parked, Officer Lawson
is catching a catnap in the front seat of the station wagon.

VanOwen is carrying a plastic bag containing an odd-shaped
SCRAP OF METAL. Kiesel walks beside him, a bulky UFO Report
Form in his hand, Higby lags a little behind. :

VANQUEN

OWEN

Is this the car you were driving, Mr. Kiesel?
KIESEL

Yes.

VANOWEN .
We'd like to borrow if for a couple hours,
if we may. (calli by)
. calling to Higby
Bill?

HIGBY -
(catching up)

Yes?

VANOWEN
Find a mechanic to go over Tom's car from top
to battom, See if there is any possibility of
ignition or engine failure,

KIESEL
You do think my car stalled of its own, do you?
. VANOWEN
I've pot to check it out, It's my job, This
is a very good repert, Tom, one of the most

lucid Encounters of the First Kind we've had,

KIESEL
Jan

Mo’

.

 

18,

16 CONTINUED

VANOWEN
That's just Air Force jargon. A Close Encounter
of the First Kind is simply a close range
sighting where a clearly identifiable object is
seen, We got a report of a second kind encounter
at Jack Estes' farm, but there haven't been any vali¢
third kinds reported in this series of sightings.
A Close Encounter of the Second Kind is where there
is material evidence, such as soil depressions, burrt
grass and so on. If we could proved your car
stalled without mechanical reason, it would make
yours an Encounter of the Second Kind.

KIESEL
And the third kind?

VANOWEN .
A Close Encounter of the Third Kind is one in
which some form of extraterrestial life is seen,
humanoid or otherwise. Very few of these are
eredible,

Kiesel gestures to the plastic bag containing the serap of metal:

, KIESEL
What are you going to do with that? _

VANOWEN
We send all the samples on to the Research and
Development Lab, They file a report.

KIESEL
Could I have it back when they're finished. I'd
like to use it in my class.

We take a closer look a the scrap of metal: it does seem quite
peculiar, ,

VANOWEN
Honestly, I forward this stuff and never see it
again, But I'll pass along your request. I'm
sure something can be done,

VanOwen places the plastic bag containing the metal into the
back of the station wagon with the other equipment, Camera
CLOSES on the odd scrap of metal.

CUT TO:
: 19.
C 17 ~=OINT. SIMPSON'S DRUG STORE AFTERNOON

 

The malt shop, circa 1960.. The local teen crowd is killing off
what remains of a Sunday afternoon by hanging around, telling
jokes, ay playing the old Wurlitzer.

Paul VanOwen and Claude Ames sit in a corner booth sipping
coffee. VanOwen motions toward the Chicago Tribune which lies
of the table before him:

VANOWEN
Now is this any way to run a paper? Three-fourths
of this stuff is hearsay and the rest is gossip.
"The objects had blue glowing lights and traveled
at speeds up to 9,000 miles per hour."" What kind
of crap is that?

AMES
Lieutenant...

VANOWEN
. . (amiable)
- Call me Paul,

 

Ne VanOwen hes a frightening ability to make split-second tactical
shifts from stern to conciliatory poses. Ames is disarmea py
VanOwen's inanner, but determined to hold his own against this
older and more experienced oponent.

AMES
Give me some straight information then. I've
got to file another story by 9:00. TI can only
write what I hear and see,

VANOWEN
Honestly, Claude, there's no more information I
can give you. There's nothing to write about herc.
Just people seeing things in the sky, It happens
all the time. .

AMES
Alright, you want "facts.'' Then answer me some
straight questions.
VANOWEN
Anything. Ask.
“ AMES
~ The Air Foree ran a check on air activity last

Friday night, right?

VANOWEN -
Yes,
Nee

17 CONTINUED

20.

AMES
Were there any jets from Jefferson or Wright-
Patterson in the areca?

VANOWEN
No.

AMES
Were there any commercial planes in the
vicinity? Any private aircraft?

VANOWEN
No. Not that I know of.

AMES
Any sputniks or weather ballons?

VANOWEN
No.

AMES.

(a beat for emphasis)
Then what the hell was up there?

VANOWEN
If you were a good reporter, you'd investigate
the other possibilities, Claude. Plasmas,
electrostasis, corona discharge, secret flight
maneuvers, sundogs, optical mirages, as looming,
lenticular cloud formations, meteors, hallucinaticns.

AMES
(a beat)
You're really trying to deceive me, arn't you?

VANOWEN
Why would I deceive you? I'm a good church-
going man, I just want to find the truth.

AMES
There's no way you would except the reality of
flying saucers, is there?

VANOWEN
Claude, how can you say that? I can't even answer
that question. My job requires total objectivity.

AMES
(a beat)
VanOwen, you are a worthy antagonist.

cut TO:
o ‘ 21.

“18 INT. . MOTEL ROOM EARLY EVENING

Papers, files and toiletries are all neatly stacked on the
dresser in VanOwen's motel room,

VanOwen is comfortably slouched in a tacky motel chair with

a telephone receiver wedged into the crook of his neck, With
one hand he holds a cigarette and with the other absent-mindedly
works a crossword puzzle as he talks on the phone. But most of
all, VanOwen seems to be resting his mind: he is a man capable
of accomplishing many tasks simultaneously.

He seems blithley uninterested in the conversation he is having;
his answers are only of the most perfuctory and obligatory nature.
Between snatches of conversation, VanOwen takes short puffs on

) his cigarette, He also manages to solve three crosswords before

the conversation is over,

U :

VANOWEN
"Bout the same. Everything seems to be in
order, I'11 be back by Tuesday, Wednesday at
: the latest...how's everything at home?...that's
nice,.,she did?...0h...OK, sure...well, do

co : what you think best...I trust your judgement..
sure, sure, thot'll be alright....whatever you

s want...of course...no, I'm not upset, dear...

i yes, everything's alright. How's Becky?...
good, put her on...Becky?...been a good girl,
puddin'?,.,that's nice...she did?...oh...well,
I'm proud of you...be a good girl, now. Daddy
loves you...,of course..,put Mommy back on the
phone now...Hello, Sharon?...

(CON'T)

Bill Higby sticks his head in the open door. VanOwen waves
him in. .

VANOWEN
. (con't)
yes, it's no problem...listen, I've got to
ving off now, dear. Bill's ready to go...yes,
I will...don't worry...goodbye, love.

VanOwen cradles the phone and looks up at Nigby.

VANOWEN
You all set?

oS HIGBY
Yeah, I'm leaving.

VANOWEN -
I'm poing over to hear che lecture at Sloan

Waa Avneve ast bT ow taehs ete Tee ae Wee TE Veen ene
{

oN
‘(218 CONTINTUED

—~r

= ye

19

23

 

22.
HIGBY
I'll see you later then.
VANOWEN
Bill?
HIGBY
Yes?
VANOWEN

(looking at the crossword)
What's a five-letter word for meaningless?

It takes Higby a second to realize VanOwen's question is rhetorical.

cUuT TO:
EXT. SLOAN FIELD EVENING

The sign above Sloan Field reads;

Robert Allen Smith
“UFOS ARE REAL"

VanOwen, Ames, Lawson and Gouda stand in one of the two li
leading to the small municipal baseball field. wo aanes

VanOven fokes with Ames and Gouda as they pass through the
turnstiles. VanOwen has slipped back into his role as the
artful Air Force public relations man. ,

CUT To:
INT. SLOAN FIELD EVENING

The citizens and tourists of Clarenceville are taking their
places in Sloan Field, Among the faces in the crowd we
recognize those of Tom and Janice Kiesel, Jimmy Simpson and his
parents, and some teenagers from the malt shop.

Tarps, blankets and cushions have been placed over the playing
field. ‘The spectators have been encouraged to lie on the

field so they can watch the stars as Prof. Smith speaks, The
older spectators assume seats in the bleachers while the younger
‘and more adventerous ones lie on the playing area,

Ames, Lawson, Gorida and VanOwen are uncertain where to sit.
Gouda looks for a seat in the stands while Ames heads toward
the cushions,

AMES .
Common, Gouda, let's lie on the playing field.
 

a

“TY ow eS

-s,

23,

23. CONTINUED

GOUDA
You kiddin? Me lie down on the ground?
I'm an officer of the law?

LAWSON
La-te-da,

VANOWEN

(joking) .
You mean the guy they sent out to watch
Jack Estes' carrots all night long?

GOUDA
(hurt)
Who told you that story?

AMES
Commen, Gouda, sit down.

They compromise by proping themselves up against the first

. row of seats, VanOwen watches the podium.

TINECUT: The field lights have been dimmed and Prof. Robert
Allen Smith is sveaking from the spotlighted vodium. Behind
him is a giant slide screen upon which has been projected a
photograph of a UFO. We cut into Smith's speech:

PROF. SMITH
Now turn your eyes to the skies,

VanOwen, Ames, Lawson and Gouda comply, as do we. It is a rich,
dark stary night.

PROF SMITH 0.S,

There are aproximately 150 billion stars in our
galaxy, of which the sun is but one medium-sized
member, Using the laws of probability, astronomers

- have estimated there are a minimum of 100,000 planets
in our galany with life-supporting atmespheres
indentical to Earth's. And there are at least 3,000
more known galaxies, some as far as 30 million
light-years away...

SUDDENLY, as Prof, Smith speaks, THREE GLOWING BLUE LIGITS move
in slow progression across the sky. One. Two. Three,

A shocked silence fills the ball park, then Prof, Smith's hushed
voice is overheard aver the loudspeaker system:

PROF, SMITH 0.S.
No-ly Cow.
23

26

24,
CONTINUED

The UFOs pass slowly over the stadium, Exclamations of fright
and surprise are wem heard everywhere. A child calls, "They're back:

PROF, SMITH
Docs anyone have a camera? Is there a camera
in the house? Please take pictures immediately.

Ames is already on his feet snapping pictures with a miniature

pocket camera. Gouda stares in wide-mouthed awe, VanQvwen,
taking a more objective view, watches without comment.

The blue lights fade into the western skies,

Ames makes a mad rush for exit. Mass confusion reigns. Spectators
turn to VanOwen for his opinion but he indicates he is as
baffled as the next person.

CUT TO:
ext. SLOAN FIELD NIGHT

4 few cars (including Ames') screech out of the park sing lot
in the general direction of the UFOs.

Lawson and Gouda try to direct the hopelessly emeshed traffic
in the Sloan Fieid parking lot.

CUT TO:
EXT. CLARENCEVILLE MAIN STREET NIGHT
Pedestiens and drivers stand watching the fading blue lights.

Ames! car is parked at an odd‘angle in front of the Clarenceville
Press office, Inside we see him talking on the phone.

CUT TO:
INT. CLARENCEVILLE PRESS NIGHT

The clock above Ames! head reads 9:00. A REPORTER at the night
desk Listens as Ames speaks:

AMES

Yeah, Narry, I know, I know, Can we still
make the morning edition?

(a beat)
Well, this is a Special. There's been more
sightinys here, Put a stenographer on the
extension,

(CON'T)
"a.

Loo

26

28

 

25.
CONTINUED

AMES
(con't)
Just a couple minutes ago. I saw them.
Along with 500 others. :
(a beat)
OK, are you ready? Take it from here:
(he pauses to collect his toughts)
"The saucers have returned to Clarenceville,
Indiana. Five hundred spectators at a
municipal baseball field saw a regular pattern
of three blue saucer-shaped discs moving at
great speed from east to west.'' New paragraph.
(a beat)
"This reporter was among them... .".

Ames is more than satisfied with himself. This is the scoop of
his young career. By tomorrow evening his name will be in every
paper in the country, :

CUT TO:
EXT, HILL OVERLOOKING SLOAN FIELD NIGHT

Bill lligby stands behind the AF station wagon on 4 hill
overlooking Sloan Field. In the distance we see the massive
traffic jam and hear the honking horns.

Higby holds up a large metal cup covered with folded blue
rubber.,He sharpely pulls a wire on the bottom of the cup and
the rubber immediately inflates with a hissing sound into a
large glowing blue helium-filled balloon.

Higby lets the balloon go and it shoots quickly upward and drifts
in the general direction of Sloan Field.

Higby quickly slams the rear gate of the station wagon and, taking
one last glance at the airbownd balloon, gets into the front seat
and drives away,

The balloon drifts on, looking indentically like the pseudo-
saucers which threw Sloan Field into a panic. All in all, a
very successful hoax.

cut TO:
EXT. OUTSKIRTS OF TOWN NIGHT

weplod a
The firse three UFO ballons pep: one by one and glide toward
the carth,

Clarenceville UFOphiles, following the balloons by car, drive
in the direction of the descending "saucers,"
28

29

26,
CONTINUED =

Qne by one, the balloons return to earth. The first crashes
in front of a dimly gas station at a rural intersection,

The "£lying saucer" lies in the middle of the road, a helpless
mass of blue rubber, mangled metal and miniature blue lights.

A gas station attendant and hanger-on move cautiously toward
the fallen saucer, Several cars pull up and their passengers
get out to inspect the object.

yitaadypr ces RSs
They ali cautiously circle the fallen UFO. They nee =
inch fearfully toward it as if it might emit some dreaded fora
of radiation.

 

In the crowd we hear such comments as:

SPECTATOR
What is it? .
SPECTATOR
Watch out. Don't go too close.
. SPECTATOR
Mayhe we shovld call the police.
. SPECTATOR
Don't touch it. :
SPECTATOR

Maybe they're real small.
CUT TO:
INT. POLICE STATION MORNING

VanOwen has assembled the UFO witnesses. for a group meeting.”
Looking around the room we see Tom and Janice Kiesel, Jack
Estes, Jimmy Simpson and a dozen or so others. Claude Ames,
chagrined, sits in a back corner.

VanOwen stands to speak; Nigby sits at his side, We has several
8x10 glossies in his hand. A folded copy of the morning edition
of the Chicago Tribune is tucked into his back pocket.

VANOWEN
I'm sorry to drag you all down here, but there's
some confusion in my mind and there are some
things I'd like to per straipht, We've received
the initial findings of che research Lab in
Dayton and 1'd like to yee your feeling s on them,
(CON''T)
 

. ‘ 27.
29° CONTINUED

VANOWEN
(con't)
There is a possibility that a large, rare
: uniqucly-formed plasma passed over this area
‘ last friday night, An Air Force pilot reported
a plasma 50 to 100 feet in diameter over Cincinati
and moving west at 2100 hours friday. ple

 

REPT mectaa : meer
arevme No one knows exactly why thee’ Occur;

no one can predict how they will act. A plasma is
a dense mass of highly ionized air. Under certain
freak conditions, such as thunderstorms, oxygen
molecules can loose electrons, geetrguthrerersret

d, postrivewttresse. The resulting chain reaction

produces a compact mass of electrified air, The

excess electrons are in turn picked up by dirt

, particles, salt crystals or even insects, causing

: them to glow in colors proportional to their

chemical composition.

Plasmas, of course, have long existed in the
familiar form known as ball lighting. But in recent
years there has been a marked increase of plasmes
ecurring around newly-develoned bigh-tension p

       

. lines, Those are called corsage cis wy. Tox
> _have also been known to emit plasmas. Scientists

were recently able to create plasmas using amonia and
natural gas--a combination which can be found over
newly fertilized farm lands. The Morehead Planitariua
has developed synthetic plasmas with controlled
electric discharge in gas-filled tubes. This, for
example, is a picture of a plasma artificially induced
by the Atomic Energy Commission.
(shows photo)
And here is a photo of a naturally occurring plasma
taken from a height of 30,000 feet. -
(shows photo)
And here is the picture Jinmy Simpson took of the
UFO which appearcd over, Clarencevjlle last friday.
« (shows photo)
All three photos look remarkably similiar. VanOwen is presenting
his evidence as skillfully as a courtroom lawyer.

VANOWEN
The similarities are remarkable. Now this is just
a hypothesis, only one of many. I wish to make no

 

i ~~ more of it than to emphasize the fact. that all the
o ae qualities aseribed to friday's UFO can also apply *
to a freak plasma, such as the one over Cineinati:
a) they can hover, glow in colors, ‘travel at great

i speeds, touch ground, burn grass, induce static,
i * cause engines to shore out. .
’ : : : (CON''T)
29

28.

CONTINUED

VANOWEN
(con't)
And, of course, there are other possibilities.
I won't even go into the possibility of a nasty
and vicious hoak, such as the one which was
perpetrated on the citizens of Clarenceville
ast night, a hoax which even fooled a reporter
from one of the country's most prestigious newspapers.

Claude Amcs hangs his head in shame, VanOwen has the secret
smile of a man who is scoring points and knows it.

TIMECUT: Ic is a little later in VanQwen's presentation. Having
made his case, he is now artfully turning the various witnesses
against each other--all in the pursuit of acurate information.
Higby watches on silently; he has seen this routine work before.

: VANOWEN
In looking over the reports, I was struck by
several discrepensies. Tom, you reported the
oject glowed blue and made no sound whatsoever?

KIESEL
Yes.

VANOWEN
And, Jack, the saucer that landed on your farm
had a large pink dome and made a screechy noise,
didn't it? _
Es its
ERCK
That's right.

. VANOWEN
Jimmy Simpson said it glowed a dim white, and his
excellent photo bears that out. Mrs. Blakely said
that the object was cigar-shaped and had red port-
holes. I don't doubt what anybody has reportad,
I just wondered if you might have something more
to add. Tom?

KIESEL
It wus so quick, you know. One can never be
100% sure.

VANOWEN
But -it was sort of red, wasn't it Jack?

ESTES
lt could have been a sort of bluish red. My
‘eyes aintt so hot on colors.
 

f; ) 29

30

29,
CONTINUED-

VanOwen pauses a moment, letting these contradictions sink in.
Looking around the room, he finds a much subdued audience. He
goes in for the kill: ,
. VANOWEN

Now I'm not excluding the possibility of space
ships, but we have to look at the evidence in
the cold light of day...

CUT TO:
INT. POLICE STATION . DAY

The witnesses, discussing the meeting, file out of the room.
One voice says, "Well, I still believe in flying saucers."

VanOwen walks out with his arm around the much chagrined Claude
Ames, VanOwen has a folded copy of the Trib in his hand. The

headline reads, "Trib Reporter Eye-Witness to Clarenceville
Saucers,"

AMES
I'm sorry, Paul, I should have checked it
out more. lt'li never happen again, Next
time I'll be more careful,

VANOWEN .
It's nothing, Claude. Anybody can make a
mistake, Live and learn.

ES
The Trib's running a retraction tomorrow. I'm
going to write the follow-up story myself. Try
to salvage my reputation,

: VANOWEN
I'll do you a favor, Claude. You need a break.
- I'Ll rush you the lab reports as soon as they

come out this afternoon. That way you can beat
the other papers by a day.

/ AMES
Ney, thanks a lot, That's great.

VANOWLN
You see, we weren't adversaries after all,

CUT TO:
 

30.
EXT, COUNTRY ROAD DUSK

The AF station wagon is parked on an obscure dirt pull-off from
a two-lane country road. VanQwen and Higby stand behind the wagon.

Two good ol' boys, CLEMSON and MANSE, are seated on the fold-down
rear gate, Each man is wrapped in tin foil to his neck. To top
off the totally absurd effect, they wear beenie caps with small
blue light bulbs on top.

MANSE
Clem, I feel so stupid doing this.

CLEMSON

Hell, Manse, if you didn't feel stupid you
wouldn't feel at all.
(chortles)

Clem, already slightly in his cups, takes another swig of Esra
Benson and hands the bottle back to VanOwen--who also tugs at it.

VANOWEN
I'm sure glad this job doesn't require a
Civil Service exam. You boys'd never make it.

Mayer

. PASSE
Hell, Lieutenant, I only do this for you.
: : VANOWEN-
: And the money.
. CLEMSON
And the money.
(chortles)
VANOWEN

Common, boys, let's finish the job.

CLEMSON
One more tug, Lieutenanet, Please.

VANOWEN
Alright.

Vandwen hands the Ezra Benson to Clem who takes a deep swig and
passes it over to Manse who also has a drink.

Higby wraps Mana's head in tin foil. Soon all that remains of
him in the small blue bulb atop his head. Then Higby starts on Cler

MANSE
(through tin foil)
You take care of the woney, Lieutenant?
Co 31.

73
~“" 31 CONTINUED

VANOWEN
Ie'll be sent to you after it's all blow
over,
MANSE .
Awh, can't me and Clem have a little now,
VANOWEN
You know the rules, Manse.
MANSE
Sheeit.
\ CUT TO:
32 EXT. ~ ANOTHER COUNTRY ROAD NIGHT

VanOwen and Higby drive the Tin Foil Men down another dark
country road,

Checking the shoulder and seeing a house light in the distance,

ot \ *y VanOwen finds a good spot and pulls over.
. VanovEN
, Alright, boys, this is the end of the line.
"CLEMSON
(drunk) ‘

Where are we?

VANOWEN
Good only knows.

VanOwen and Higby help Clem and Manse out of the back seat.
They sct them facing forward on the shoulder of the road.

VANOWEN
Can you see the road?

MANSE
I think so.

VANOWEN

Good. Stay off the road. ust shuffle down
the shoulder, Real slow.

pm! CLEMSON
, Where are we?

MANSE
Shut up, Clem, -
we eee, oo we

)

~
i

32

33

32.
CONTINUED
VandOwen flips a switch on cach of their foil-covered beenies
and the little blue Lights begin blinking on and off. VanOwen
sets Clem and Manse on course,

VanOwen and Nigby say goodbye and get into the station wagon and
drive away,

The Tin Foil Men shuffle down the shoulder, the blue lights
blinking against their shiny bodies. Tipsy Clem wavers along
at Manse's side,

CUT TO:
EXT. PHONE BOOTH NIGHT

VanOwen and Higby stop by a phone booth outside their motel.
The motel is on a highway miles ewep from Clarenceville.

VanOwen steps into the booth and places a call. When the other

. party answers, VanOwen alters his voice, imitating a hysterical

peckerwood:

 

VARCH
Is this the po-iice? Oh, Lordy. Lordy, Lordy.
I seen 'em. They landed. They came from outer
space. They're all shiny and glowin with blue
eyes, They're coming down Route 19 right now.
Oh, Lordy, Lordy, help us.

(a beat)
No, officer,-I ain't a-crazy. I seen ‘em, and
now they're gonna get me!

(a beat)
This is Ike Tindal. Wait! I got to hang up
now!

  
  

(slams receiver down) ©

VanOwen composes himself and walks back to Higby who stands by
the car.

VANOWEN :
You mighe as well go back to Dayton with the
rest of these samples. ‘The motel manager will
drive you to the airport. I'11 wait this thing
out and drive back comorrow or the next day.

NIGBY
Roger.

They get inco the car and drive toward the motel,

cuT To:
~)

34

33.
EXT, ROUTE 19 NIGHT
A Clarcnceville patrol car speeds down Route 19.

Officers Lawson and Gouda scan the road intensly as the pass.
Suddenly, ahead they see two silver spacemen with flashing
blue heads.

Lawson quickly breaks the car to a crawl. Gouda draws his gun.
GOUDA
(frightened)
Oh, my God. It's them, What'll we do?

LAWSON
Don't panic,

Lawson cuts the headlights and slowly approaches the Tin Foil
Men from the rear, Gouda loads the shotgun with trembling hands.

, Lawson pulls the patrol car to the side of the road and parks it.

Lawson and Gouda epen their doors and kneel beside the car, Lawson
reaches in and pulls out the mike: ,

LAWSOW
Car 2, Car 2 to headquarters. Are approaching
what appears to be two space creatures walking
on Route 19 approximately 1000 yards west of Six
Mile Road. Appearizg to have glwoing humanoid
-shape with flashing blue heads.

(a beat)

Flashing blue heads.

(a beat)
Will do. 10-4.
(hangs up mike)

GOUDA
What did they say? :

LAWSON
Try to take them alive.

GOUDA

Shit,

Guns drawn, Lawson and Gouda inch their way toward the Tin Foil
Men. Coming up behind Clem and Manse, Lawson and Gouda point
their guns and stand up straighe.

COUDA
Nale in the name of the United States of America,
“We are a peaceful country. .
34

35

 

CONTINUED
Clem and Manse awkwardly turn in their tin foil costumes. Clem,

still tipsy, trips over his feet and t.mbles to the ground. Manse
calls through the tin foil:

MANSE
Don't shoot, officers. Don't shoot. We're
earth people.
Manse pulls down the tin foil revealing his face:

‘  MANSE
Don't shoot. We're human people.

Lawson and Gouda lower their guns,
. CUT TO:
INT. “POLICE STATION NIGHT

Clem and Manse sit side by side in an INTERROGATION RCOM.
Standing around them are Lawson, Gouda and Captain Maple.

Clem and Manse stare dumbly up at their , interrogators . Their
beenie caps have been cemoved and the tin foil is stripped
below their necks,

MAPLE
So this is your idea of a joke?

LAWSON
Where you boys from?

MANSE
Kentucky, sir.

GOUDA
Where in Kentucky?

MANSE
Custer,

MAPLE

What did you think you were doing, dressing
up like that?

CLEMSON
Hell, Capt'n, we wuz jus havin a Lite’) fun.

GOUDA
You think itts funny to scare people half crazy?
You should of heard the poor man who called here.

MANSE
We din mean no harm, Capt'n,
35.

35 CONTINUED

Captain Maple walks into ANOTHER ROOM, picks up a phone and
dials. After a moment there is an answer.

MAPLE
Hello, Lieutenant VanOwen? Could you come down
to the station. This is Captain Maple. Sorry
to bother you like this, but there's a couple
a boys here I think you should talk to.

. (a beat)
Thanks. See you in twenty minutes then.
(hangs up)
Cut TO:
36 EXT. DARK ROAD NIGHT

Paul VanOwen drives across the dark country roads toward
Clarenceville. He appears calm and content with himself.
A job well done. .

VanOwen drives along for quite some time before he senses
something strange. Nothing precise exactly. An odd feeling
in the air, the sense of someone following him.

Feeling heat on the back of his head, VanOwen rubs his neck.
A florescent glow seems to shine momentarily into the back of
the station wagon, but when he turns around to look, it is gone.

Driving on, he feels ‘heat all around him, He looks at the
water temperature guage: it is rising. :

There scems to be a faint blue glow alll around the station
wagon. VanOwen strains his head out the window to lcok behind
him, but sees nothing. He checks the battery gauge: it is
discharging rapidly. AWS :

wat
The glow grows warmer, VanOwen,his speedometer fall steadily:
60-55-50-45, Ileépresses the accelerator to the floor, but the
car continues to dééelerate: 40-35-30. He rechecks the gauges.
The water temperature reads "hot" and the battery is fully discharge:

The engine begins to sputter, VanOwen pumps the accelerator
but the station wagon only sputters more--then conks out. He
slowly guides the dead car onto the shoulder,

The car comes to a halt. The interior and exterior car lights
suddenly go dark, Bue there is still a strange light softly
flooding the area; a bluc glow. He feels the sweat on his face.

VanOwen opens his door and steps outside, The moment he does, he he.
a strange mechanical plercing saund--the SAUCER SOUND--quiet but
intense,
—

36,
CONTIRUED

He looks up and sees it: a huge blusish saucer hovering hundreds
of feets above his head, ‘This is the only time during the
sequenee that we see the "saucer" itself. All the other shots ”
are played against VanOwen, his car, the road, the landscape. ce

In fact, the object VanOwen "sees" may not be real at all. tt
certainly is "real" to VanOwen, but from the evidence available
we cannot be sure if it is a hallucination or a genuine close
encounter. :

At first VanOwen seemed curious, then upset; now fear is setting
in. We walks backward down the road.

He staggers off the road. Suddenly, the saucer seems to be
directly above him: huge, round and bluish. He is flooded in
light.

Without warning, all noise stops. There is stillness everywhere.
The light slowly dissolves to pink. VanQwen's eye sockets seem
hollow, his cheeks callow.

* Sweat pours across his face; his lips tremble. He wants to run

but his body won't oblige: he is frozen,

Hi: eyes epen us big as saucers, Fear fills his every pour. He
is seeing something of incredible grandeur--or horror. It is no
plasma. .

His face and body are transformed as if by X-Ray. It is an
in-depth X-Ray the like of which has becn been seen on this earth.
The ray cuts through him layer by layer: first we see his skin,
then the red network of blood vessels, then the grey network of
the nervous system, then his skeletonal structure, and finally
nothing but a pale glow--his very soul.

Ne raises his hand before him and sees only a skeleton's palm
bathed in red light.

The SAUCER SOURD returns then dissolves into the OUTER SPACE

SOUND. VanOwen's palm dissolves to the misty view of the SITE

and we are back momentarily where the picture began, An orange glow
hovers on the horizon, We hear the sound of worlds colliding.

Intertwined, there is also a new sound--the PHONETIC. LOOP SOUND--
a repeated pattern of sounds which scems to make a coherent
sentanee, Perhaps something Like ka-fu-rao-pho-lie-ka-£a-roo...
(final seleetion, of course, would be made after study of possible
phonetic sound Loops).

The Site dissolves ince OUTER SVACE and we are back among unknown
stars, planets and yalaxies, The outer space sound grows grander.
ms,

Le

37

38

. 37,
CONTINUED

We hear the sound of a car engine idling and all grows dark
and silent.

VanOwen is sitting at the wheel of his station wagon. The engine
is running and the car lights are on.

He sces two lights ahead and watches slowly as a car drives
past, All has.returned to normal.

SCREENWRITER'S NOTE: whatever visual and auditory techniques are
used during this encounter and subsequent memories of it, the
final impression left by the encounter should be that of a
personal experience, not a physical sighting.

CUT TO:
EXT, MOTEL DAYBREAK

The first rays of morning fall across the parking lot of |
Vanowen's motel, The station wagon is parked in its appreprifate
place.

CUT TO:

INT. MOTEL DAWN-DAY-NIGHT

Morning Light breaks through the curtains in VanOwen's motel
room, : :

The bed is rumpled but unslept in, Papers, books and toilctries
are scattered over the dresser. Clothes are spread around the res:

Paul VanOwen, wearing his wrinkled uniform from the night before,
sits staring into vacant space,

His eyes fall on various objects in the room: a traveler's clock,
a Gideon Bible, a wrinkled shirts. What do they mean?

Disverve>
peaterketies The early morning light diegeives into the organish
glow of evening.

VanOwen sits in another chair, staring at his shoes. His AF coat
lies on the bed, Ne examines his fingers as if they were not
pare of his body.

DISSOLVE TO: night, The room is dark except for the reflectad
glow of the motel sign.

VanOwen looks out the Large picture window into the black night.
For a moment he hears the OUTER SPACE SOUND, but it quickly rades.
oO 38.
. 38 CONTINUED ©

TIMECUT: later that night. VanOwen sits beside the phone.
Presciently, he turns and looks at it: it rings. VanQwen picks
up the receiver and Captain Maple's voice comes from the other
end of the line. :

MAPLE 0.S.
Lieutenant VanOwen?
(a beat)
VanOwen?
VANOWEN
(detached)
Yes,
MAPLE 0,S.

Where were you last night? We waited for hours.
I finally had to give the story to the press myself,

VANOWEN
I couldn't make it.

MAPLE 0.5S.
Well, it's alright. I just wanted to tell you
it was ail a hoax. We had some more prez fs
last night. I'm sorry we made such damn
of ourselves.

 
  

VANOWEN
That's alright. It's nothing.

MAPLE (0.S.
I figured you'd be in Ashville by now. They're
having a bunch of sightings’ there,

VANOWEN
(his interest picking up)
North Carolina?

MAPLE 0.S.
Yeah, it's been coming over the news for the
last hour.
(pause: no reply)
Well, I'11 see you later.

VANOWEN
-, Yes. ‘

_’ MAPLE 0.S.
Goodbye.

VanOwen hangs up the receiver.

cuT To:
40

 

39,
EXT. AIR FORCE BASE NIGUT
VanOwen's station wagon speeds down a deserted Indiana highway.

He swerves sharply into the guarded entrance of an Air Force
base. A YOUNG SP examines him suspiciously, but VanOwen flashes
a security clearance card at him and drives past.

He pulls up to a hanger.
CUT TO:
INT. HANGER NIGHT

Inside the hanger, we see the desperate situation Paul VanOwen
finds himself in: his uniform is dishevled, his face unshaved,
his hair uncombed, his skin pale and his expression totally manic.

And he is now trying to talk TWO AF NIGHT PERSONNEL into
letting him take a jet up in the middle of the night:

VANOWEN
There's no problem. I've flown these things
@ hundred times. I have it sent back from
Wright-Patterson. I'll bring it back from
Ashville mysell.

VanOwen again flashes his AF identity, security and flight cards
at the night personnel, but they are clearly unimpressed. They're
both trying to figure out a way to get VanOwen off-the base before
he gets himself in trouble.

1ST AF SERVICEMAN
Common, Lieutenant, you've had a rough night.

The lst Serviceman puts his hand on VanOwen shoulder put Paul
shakes it off.

VANOWEN .
Call Major Dominick at Wright-Patterson. He'll
OK it.

. 2ND AF SERVICHEHAN
You really don't want to do that, Lieutenant.
Save yourself a lot of trouble and go home now.

1ST AF SERVICEMAN
. Wait until mornining, Licutenant, Then we can
ik Betyjokayed through normal channels,

VANOWEN
I've got to get to Ashville tonighc.

2ND AF SERVICEMAN
You're not poing anywhere tonight, Licutenant,
40

on

42

CONTINUED

The 2nd Serviceman tries to take VanOwen by the arm but Paul tums
and grabs him by the collar:

VANOWEN
I'm going to Ashville tonight!

The lst Serviceman attempts to restrain VanOwen but catches an
elbow in the chest, The 2nd Serviceman grabs VanOwen by the
shoulder and punches at him glancing a blow off his cheek.

SEVERAL ADDITIONAL SERVICEMEN hear the ruckus and come running
across the hangar.

VanOwen fights and kicks, but he is quickly subdued by greater
numbers. During the struggle we hear his panicky voice:

VANOWEN
I'm from Air Force Intelligence! I'm from
Wright-Patterson!
CUT TO:
EXS. VANOWER HOME DAY

VanGvan's station wagon stands in the driveway of his middle-class
ranch style howe in suburban Dayton. The house is quintessenti
Eisenbower: the name on the mailbex, the meticulously groomed ‘leun,
the wor wagon wheels in the front yard.

  

CUT TO:
INT. KITCHEN EVENING

Paul VanOvwen, Sharon and Becky have supper around their formica-
topped kitchen table. Mashed potatoes, roast beef and corm. Ray
Conniff pluys on the stereo: pura Americana.

VanOwen is wearing, casual slacks and a rolled-up plaid shirt--the
first time we have seen him without his uniform. He pokes list-
lessly at his food but does not eat. Becky catches a furtive
glance at her father: she knows there is "something" wrong.

Paul sets his fork down and stands up absent-mindedly, Without
saying, a word, he walks into the LIVING kOOM.

SHARON 0.8,
(concerned)
Paul?) Paul, what's wrong?

Wael nto te te et vos sone + -
~

 

 

43 INT, AT. ILC, DAY

The sign on the door reads: “Air Force Intelligence Center
Wright-Patterson AFL."

We hear VanOwen and Major Dominick's VOICES as we track through
the offices, past two secretaries, past Rill Higby's office (his
door his ajar and he is at his desk) and into Major Dominick's
office, :

MAJOR DOMINICK is a fiftiesh AF career man: a bureaucrat over
troubled waters, Behind his head hangs a large 1960 Air Force
calender picturing the F-86, then the. latest in air attack
technology.

VanOwen wears his freshly pressed uniform:

VANOWEN
Don't try to make a fool out of me, Major.
I know what I saw.

DOMINICK
'm not making a fool out of you.

Dominick seems a decent, reasonable, well-intended sort. VanOwen
‘ is, and has been, under some strain and Dominick tries to keep
this in mind.

VARGVEN
What does a man have to “do to get someone to
believe him? Put up an exhibit at the Smithsonien?

DOMINICK
That would be a start.

(backing off)
Now, honestly, Paul, We have your report. We're
investigating it now. We are pursuing this matter.

VANOWEN
But I am the investigator--and L'iaa the only
eye witness.

DOMINICK
We'll need a full field reporc.

VANOWEN
You mean send somebody out to pick up more dirt
sauples that don't mean a dann thing?

- DOMINICK

(deep breath)

7 Paul, you of all people should understand my

position: I must treat this report like I would
any other siphting., You have often told me you
would not cake anybody's. s statement at face value
without an investigation. Why should it be
different in your case?

 
43 CONTINUED

42,

VANOWEN
Major, this has to come out in the open,
We must end this coverup.

DOMINICK
Coverup? There has never been a coverup.

VANOWEN
What do you think I've been doing for the
past two years?

DOMINICK
Did you ever think you were covering anything
up? Be honest, Paul,

VANOWEN

(a beat)
No. But that was because I didn't think there
was anything to cover up.

DOMINICK
There wasn't, We may have done some secondary
"public relations" work, but we have never
covered up the Llast scintille of evidence,

 

VANOWEN
If you don't make a public announcement about
what I saw, Charles, I do it myself. ~

*DOMINICK
Please do. Tell anybody you want. I'm not
going to try to shut you up. We don't cover-up here.

VANOWEN
I'll go over your head, Major.

DOMINICK .
Go ahead. I won't try ta stop you from destro
your career. But you know there's no one over
head on this matter. The UFO buck stops right in
this office. The job of this office is to inves-
tigate all reports carefully and analytically, and
it's not going to change now.

VANOWEN
If you would make one positive assumption instead
of a negative one, you would believe me.

DOMINICK
You have it just backwards, Paul. Scientific
method assumes the negative, it proves the positive.

 
AD

44

 

43,
CONTINUED ~
VanOwen pauses a moment before saying what he really feels:

VANOWEN
Major, you're so full of crap.

Dominick sits back in his chair saying nothing. His feelings are
more of sorrow than anger. He is watching a soli@.Air Force man--
a career officer--go to pieces before his eyes.

CUT TO:
INT. CHURCH MORNING

The purple-robed church choir take their seats and the organ
music dies out,

Rev. Schuur takes the pulpit:

. REV, SCHUUR :

We would like to thank our choir and Mrs. red
VanDyk for that very moving rendition of the

old hymn, "When Faith Like a River Attendeth
-My Way."

Our text this ouining cones from Paul's
second epistle to the Corinthians, Chapter
5, verses 14 through 17:

Schuuw reads the verses in a ministerial monotone. VanOwen,
Sharon and Becky, all dressed in their Sunday best, sit in a
prominent pew, Sharon and Becky, like the rest of the
congregation, are straight-backed and attentive.

All except Paul, that is. VanOwen seems extremely uncomfortable,
nervous, restless. en Ws pretest Lome eves

Paul fusses and fidgets through about half of Schuur's reading
then he can take it no more. The fusedis burning dangerously low:
on his personal time bomb: he must escape a he will explode,

VanOwen stands up abruptly, turns, and walks with long confident
strides up the aisle and out of the church, Parishoners turn
their heads to watch him pass, Schuur's delivery hesitates as
his eyes wateh VanOwen,

VanOwen walks down the steps and stands in the empty NARTNEX,

Ne breathes deeply; the claustrophobic Cecling is gone.

Ne looks from side to side, becomming suddenly aware of what he
has dene, He walks over to the tract rack and seans them
inattenvively.

The choir has begun to sing; the soothing, sound of distant voices
dvites throurh the narthex, VanOwen picks up his gears,
ch

44

4h,
CONTINUED

The choir sings an inspiring choral (perhaps “Jerusalem') and
VanOwen seems more and more carried away by it.

VanOwen's subconscious mind begins to exert its will over his
conscious. The hidden memory begins to emerge.

The CHURCH SOUND is transformed in VanOwen's ears to a new
sound, the CELESTIAL SOUND which in turn is mixed with the OUTER
SPACF SOUND. The celestial sound is, in fact, an orchestrated
mixture of the organ, church, saucer and outer space sounds,

Red and blue nebulae-like mists materialize before his eyes,
turning and twisting about like lost worlds.

This is but a rudimentary memory; VanOwen can only make out
it vaguest outlines. The memory grows before his eyes,
tantilizes him with its tangibility, then evaporates.

The bluc and red mists blow past, leaving only the original |
vision of the SITE--erie, distant and imposing.

CUT TO:
Ist. RITCHEN DAY

VanOwen's memory is interructed by Sharon's voice. He and Sharon
stand arguing over the kitchen table as Becky watches on from
another room.

SHARON
So you think you can just up and walk out
when you feel like it, What about me? I
was never so mortified in my life.

VANOWEN
I don't want to talk about it.

SHARON
Fine example you set for your daughter. I£
you don't want...

VANOWEN
(barely rational)
I don't want to talk about it!

SHARON
If you don't want to go to church, then maybe
you just shouldn't go.

VANOWEN
Alright then, IT won't go. No more church.
‘They don't need me anyway.
ao

N

45.

45 CONTINUED

SHARON
Paul, please. What's happening? What's got
into you? It is somebody else?

VANOWEN
Why don't you just leave me alone?
SHARON
Why don't you let me?
VANOWEN
Alright, I will. I'm going. I need some

fresh air.

VYanOwen grabs his coat and walks toward the front door. Sharon
follows him, pleading:

SHARON
I didn't mean that, Paul. Please stay. Let's
talk about it. :

VanOwen strides across the lawn toward his station wagon.
‘ CUT Te:
nt, A.T.1.C. DAY

The sceretaries eye VanOwen warily as he walks past and into
the open dvor of Higby's office. He looks haggard.

Van@een Finds Higby unpacking his briefcase.

VANOWEN
What's this, Bill?

HIGBY
Stopped off in Clarenceville on the way back
from Ashville. Investigated your report.

The pever balance between VanOwen has abruptly shifted: Paul
is now eday and Higby superior. He relishes his advantage over
his former boss
VANOWEN
(ironic)
I bet it was negative, Why wasn't I told?

HIGBY
The Major's going to insist on you taking that
vacation, Paul, You need a rest. He's been
talking to your wile.
 

O 46 CONTINUED

 

46.

VANOWEN '
He's been talking with Sharon! What siSine's»
vedi? is that of his?

HIGBY
Take it up with him, I don't want to get
involved.

VANOWEN
You probably planned it. You were always
against me,

HIGBY
I think you ought to take that vacation, Paul.

VANOWEN
So you can make me look like the village idiot
while I'm gone? .

RIGBY
Don't accuse me of using your methods.

VANOWEN
My methods?
HIGBY
You need a rest, Paul..
VANOWEN
(pathetic)

I need a chance to find it again, that's all,
Bill. They have to send me back out.

HIGBY
I never did approve of your methods.
VANOWEN
(m gered)
Get out of here, I don't want you around me, ©
HIGBY
But this is my office.
' . VANOWEN
: Oh,
> -) Ne turns and exits.

.

Dow

CUT ‘10:
ee

Us

1
\

47
“

48

47.
INT,” BEDROOM DAY

Paul VanQven packs his suitcase with silent efficiently and
closes it.

Ne takes a final look at a sheet of paper, leaves it on
the dresser and walks out, It reads: "I'm sorry."

CUT TO:
INT, A.T.1.C, DAY

VanOwen has closeted himself in his A.T.I.C. office. Behind
him stand boxes and boxes of all UFO files.

Ne studies the files one by one, joting down notes. We then

pins the notes on a large billboard under various categories:
“Daylight Dises," "Close Encounters of the lst Kind" and so forth.
Nis half-open suitcase lies 6n the crumbled sofa,

There is a knock on the door. VanOwen, suspicious, looks up.

‘Two men in anonymous dark suits walk in, Their names, as we

shall learn later, are AUGUST KILNE and LOU’ HEKMAN,
Kilne closes the door behind them.

KILNE
Lt. VanOwen? May we speak with you a moment?

VANOWEN
Did you come to throw me out of my office?

They sit down.
‘ KILNE

Not at all. Excuse our intrusion. You reported
seeing a UFO a week ago in Clarenceville, right?

VANOWEN
Yes. I filed a report.
HEKMAN
We read the report. -
KILNE

It's a very good report. We have reason to
believe it is authentic.

VANOWEN
Who are you?
5.

LL

CONTINUED

48.

KILNE
Well, Lieutenant, this is sort of awkward.
We represent the governmental body which
investigates UFOs.

“VANOWEN
That can't be. I represent the governmental
body which investigates UFO,

: KILNE
Not quite. You represent the governmental body
which covers up UFO reports, You are a front,
A public relations man,

VANOWEN
Who are you?

KILNE
Major Dominick is the only one in your unit -.
who lmows its. t==e nature. He has tobeetws:-q'che. te >
—about” you. He feels you have become a security
risk to your unit and to yourself. He spoke .

of you only in the highest terms.

VANOWEN
What .is all this? A joke?

KILNE .
Just the opposite. Major Dominick has suggested
that you come and join our staff. We are a small
top secret unit entirely within the Air Force. Ko
elected politician knows of our existence; we
report only to the Joint Chiefs. We are called
Project Grief. We are nonpeople within the Air
Force. We have neither rank nor commission. We
have neither family nor private lives. We follow
orders; we make reports only when we deem necessary.
We are only a couple years old but are free to
pursue UFO investigations in any way we choose,

VANOWEN
Why don't I just report your existence to the
press? That would blow the lid off,

KILNE
What is there to report? We do not exist.

HEKMAN .
Major Dowinick said you told him you thought your
whole Life was a lie, that you can created no
knowLcdy¢, oemictedeeere only decept Lon, sackettr tee rert
This is your chance to change all that, You can
help us investipace and learn, Major Dominick
thinks you could be of yreat use to us.
49

C

~ =) -

49,

CONTINUED ~

KILNE
Well, how about it, Lieutenant?

VanOwen thinks a moment then smiles. This is all he could
have ever dreamed for.

VANOWEN
Yes. I want nothing more, Good God, yes,

DISSOLVE TO:
INT. PROJECT GRIEF LAB DAY

We dissolve to Paul VanOwen, dressed in civilian clothes, being
led into a large white laboratory by Kilne.

In is the same lab we saw fifteen years later (in the opening
scene). At this time, however, the laboratory is comparatively
old-fashioned and poorly equipped. The walls are hung with
appropriate astronomical and UFO charts, maps and photos.

VanOwen's eye catches an object Lying on one of the lab tables:
it is the oddly-chaped SCRAP OF METAL VanQwen picked vp in the

‘Livlg wilh Ton Kiesel, This is the lab where all lis iuvestigatiew.
& .

ultimately led.

The staff of Project Grief is lined against one of the tables.
They look anonymously efficient in their white jackets. Among
the five men and two women, we recognize Lou Hekman,.

. KILNE
Gentlemen and women, this is James Paul
VanOwen, the new staff member I've told
you about,
(to VanOwen)
Paul, welcome to our family.

Kilne leads VanOwen down the line and introduces the staff members
one by one: .
KILNE
Lou Nekman, Haru Miko, Judy Nicholas, Otis

 
 

Cary, Ken Tabulis... i PALS
Sereen slowly FADES TO WIITE, ATS ys
“|
INT, VYROJECT GRIEF LAB 7 DAY (1975)

Sereen diszulves to the same shade of white which opened the
picture, ‘Ihe poised seapel tips downward: a red dot appears on
the sereen and swings into a horseshoe formation,
‘or

“>

si

 

51

CONTINUED —

Fifty-five year-old Paul VanOwen grimaces in pain and we are
back to where the opening sequence left off,

Lou Hekman implants the square thermocouple and Haru Miko helps
him suture the incision. They are now both in their forties.

Today's work finished, VanOwen stands up from the operating
table. Ie looks down at the six circular bandages which have
been placed over the incisions on his chest. He touches one
of thew gentley with his fingertips.

VanOwen walks over to a chair, picks up his clean white shirt
and puts it on,

VANOWEN
(inspecting bandages)
That's very good work, Lou.

HEKMAN
(deferntial)
Thanks, chief.
VANOWVEN
(buttoning shirt)
We'll go back at it same time day after
tomorrow, .

HEKMAN
Ill'be be here.

Hekman chuckles depreciatingly: where else would he be?
VanOwen walks to the door.

CcuT TO:
INT. VANOWEN'S OFFICE * DAY

VanOwen enters his office in the subterranean Project Grief
complox, :

It is a large prestigious office; VanOwen is obviously a VIP
in Project Grick, Gueeneewekistegs 4 UFO siqslatciess still hens en fe wsil

VanOwen the closet and selects a discrete black-and-red tic.
Ne puts on his grey pin-striped vest and suit coat to match
his trousers.

VanOwen fastens his watch as he leaves the office.

CuT TO:
"52

54

of,

sa

51.
INT, _ CORRIDORS DAY

VanOwen walks down the broad white corridor toward the elevator.
A large Ellsworth Kelley painting stretches across one wall.

Ne pulls out his key, places it in the elevator switch and
turns it, A green light indicates the "UP" elevator has been
activated,

He steps into the elevator.and the doors close behind him,
INSIDE THE ELEVATOR, the floor indicator lights progress from
B4 to B3 to B2 to Bl to G. The doors open and VanOwen is on
the ground floor.

VanOwen steps out, On the wall by the elevator door there is,
instcad of a button, a small keyhole and a discrete sign reading,
“Access to this Elevator by Key Only."

A armed, uniformed sir Force GAURD sits at a desk near the
elevator. He nods to VanOwen.

The guard stands and unlocks the exit door for Paul. The door
opens and VanOwen steps out into the brilliant sunlight.

CUT TO:
EMT. “FB PARKING LOT DAY

A sign above the door VanQwen has just exited reads, "Restricted
Area. Authorized Personnel Only."

As VinOwen walks, we notice the building he has exited is actually
a planetariun. In the distance is a large complex of nddescript
militery buildings. “

Striding across the parking lot, VanOwen slips on his sunglasses.
Conservatively attired in his three-piece suit, Paul VanOwen is
an anomaly in this world of AF uniforms, regulations and staff
cars,

VanOwen steps over to a long black 1975 Cadillac limousine with

tinted dark windows. A sign inside the windshield reads, “Diplomati:

Car. Official business."

VanOwen gets in and-vives out of the lot into the plastic world
of 1975.

cuT TO:
EXT, WIGHWAY DAY

VanOwen's limosine zooms acress the barren fields of Ohio on
a modern four-lane Interstate,

Coming, inta Dayton, he looks across the modernized skyline.

CUT ‘TO: |
. 52.
EXT, DAYTON DAY
Vanowen drives down the street where he once lived. He slowly

passes his old ranch-style house. <A new name is on the mailbox
and the neighborhood has been transformed into a low income

uasi-urban arca. The wagon wheels which once adorned the
front yard heeothcerteter-crt ant thre—hotes—covesedmeretng fe gore.
He drives on. -

Later, driving through a more affluent neig hborhood, VanOwen
slows down as he approaches a comfortable suburban home.
Checking the address against a small notepad, VanOwen turns
into the driveway.

We gets out and walks to the front door. After a moment's
hesitation, he rings the bell and waits.

No one answers after a second ring and VanOwen peeks in the
front windew, Seeing something of interest, he walks around
the house.

IN THE BACKYARD, a mature good-looking woman is working in her

flower garden. VanOwen sees her from behind and walks toward her.

  

35 over har shoulder, we see Paul walking softly acrecs the
wiass toward hec, After a moment, we recognize Sharou
VanOwen's ex-wife.

VanOwen steps softly beside her, saying nothing. She is not
aware of his presence, After a moment, he says casually:

. VANOWEN
Hello, dear. How'd things go today?

Without turning, she answers as if by a long-forgotten reflex:

SHARON
Okay. How about you?

There is a slight pause. Almost against his will, Paul smiles.
Suddenly Sharon realizes what she has said and turns around:

SHARON
Is that you? Paul? Is that Paul VanOwen?
VANOWEN
(nods)
Yes, Sharon,
* SHARON

My God, 1 thought you were dead.

There is an uneasy pause, She gestures toward the house,
56

53.

CONTINUED

SHARON
Come in. Please come in.

Sharon walks toward the house and Paul follows her.
cUuT To:
INT, LIVING ROOM DAY
They walk into the living room, VanOwen awkwardly scans the
room. ‘The furniture is expensive, but noc particularly

tasteful, The framed photo of a man stands on the stereo
console, .

Paul and Sharon are both uncomfortable, They hardly know where
to start.

. SHARON
Would you like something? A drink or a cup
“of coffee?
. VANCWEN
Just a little scotch. To celebrate the
ocassion, .
SHARON

(releasing her tension)
Well, me too.

VanOwen finds a seat and Sharon pours a couple glasses of
scotch, .

VANOWEN
How are you?

SHARON
I'm fine. .

VANOWEN .
Good,

(looking at picture)
How's Jim?
SHARON

Ne diced almost a year ago. Cancer.

-VANOWEN

(awkward)
I'm sorry.
;™‘

4/57 CONTINUED

34,

SHARON
Don't be. We had a good life together, We
were married eleven years. That's longer
than you and I were married. This is his
house.
(looks around)

VANOWEN
How's Becky?
SHARON
May I ask you something?
VANOWEN
Sure.
SHARON ,

Why are you here?

This is a crucial question, and VanOwen himself hardly knows
the answer. How does he convey the complex series of emotions
o ~, which have brought him back?

 

He hens and haws, looking anywuere but at Sharon:

VANOWEN
Well, I just thought that ahh...I would
ahh...

SHARON

(without bitterness)
Why does a man leave his wife and child after
nine years of marriage, file divorce papers in
absentia, disappear for fitteen years, let

_ people think he was dead, then suddenly show

up one day?

VANOWVEN
Well, I had to come into this areca and I was
just thinking that I would ahh... well, see

you one...one more time.

SHARON
We hardly know each other any more.

VANOWEN
We have a lot of history in common, Sharon,
And 1 would like to know everything is...
alright.
 

57 CONTINUED

ss.f\

“)

SHARON
Paul, what's wrong?
VANOWEN
Nothing. I just wanted to see you again.
An impulse.
SHARON

Well, I'm glad to see you're alive--and
in good health too.

(laughs)
VANOWEN
(smiles)
I'm getting a lot of medical attention.
(a beat)
How's Becky?
SHARON
She's married now. .
VANOWEN
Already?
SHARON

For two years. She's 23 now, She has a
child, six months old. You're a grandfather
now. We're both grandparents.

VANOWEN
Did she go to college?

SHARON
For two years. Then she met Eric and dropped
out, They live in Indianapolis. I can get
you her address. .

VANOWEN
Would you do that please?

Sharon stands and walks into another room, Paul watches her
contemplatively.

cur TO:
whe

58

59

Go

EXT. BANK DAY (? “] 2)

VanOwen's limousine pulls up in front of a Dayton bank.
Paul gets out and walks inside.

CuT TO:

INT. BANK OFFICE DAY

. VanOwen stands beside the BANK PRESIDENT in his plush office.

Tne president, seated, gocs over a sheath of papers:

BANK PRESIDENT
It's certainly a pleasure to meet the
man whose money we've been investing all
these years. Before he retired, Charlie
said to give you his best if you ever came
in. That was four years ago already.

VaROucn

Is everything in or3er?

BANK PRESIDENT
Yes, Did you want any changes in the will?

VANOWEN
No, I just wanteé to make sure it was all
in order, Just hold everything in treasury
Honds, vewridewyorrhevenbomarvesivoerer There
won't be any more payments.

BANK PRESIDENT
Is there anything else you can remember?

VanOwen thinks. As he does the sereen FADES TO DARK BLUE,

Curt wo.
DISLOLVE- TO: oye

 

nee
Inv. PROJECT GRIEF GAME ROOM EVENING (1963) ~

A small red vibratiny dot appearson the Field of blue. As
we fade in’we realize the dot is the plowing, end of a
edyarette being smoking by Haru Miko in the Project Grief
Game Room,
~N
}

56.

“69 CONTINUED

oo

The Game Room is a large wood-paneled "Tudor Style" relaxation
room in the otherwise crome and steel underground Grief complex.
The room is richly decorated with deep pile carpets and leather
chairs and contains a chess table, a dart board, a pool table,
a television and rows of books.

As the camera slowly pans across the room, we find a congenial

assortment of seemingly unrelated activities: Haru Miko (his

cigarette tip aglow) silently watches an early Sixties episode

of "The Beverly Hillbillies," further along Otis Carey and Ken

Tabulis play chess intently, beyond them Auguse Kilne and and

Lou Heckman are plete a lacadasical game of pool. Behind them, &

white-jacketed FEMALE STAFF MEMBER browses through the book shelves.
— Sheeting .

At the far end of the room Paul VanOwen and Judy Nicholas ene sit

geated side by side in high-backed leather chairs, aeading. Paul

wears informal clothes and is deeply involved in_a heavy tome

about radio astromony. Judy, a good-looking woman about 35, is

reading something less weighty. All in all, it seems a happy

+ though highly unusual family.

  

We watch VanOwen: suddenly, all this intense study gets too much
for his. We drops his book te the floor, puts his hands az
his neck in a mock-choking manner, stands up, staggers in a

circle and finally collapses to the carpet as if choked to death.

d4asol£ :

     

Judy looks up momentarily but no one else takes much notice. Their
closeted conditions have forced the Grief staff members to be
remarkably tolerate of each other's eccentricities.

VanOwen finally pulls himself to his feet, picks up his book,
plops back down in his chair and resumes reading.

After a moment, Judy turns to him and says:

JUDY...
(pleasant)
Getting a little too much for you, Paul?

VANOWEN

(quoting from his book) .
"If we accept the Davis-Greenstcin value for
the strength of general interstellar magnetic
fields, then it becomes necessary to also accepc
the view, pasited by Baade and Minkowski, chat
still more intense clouds of gases collide
violently with cach other, though not necessarily
in the ratio they proscribed." Aaarrrgghhh,
C
‘(ope

61

~ They walk pa
a YP

57.
CONTINUED -

JUDY
It's not my fault you wanted to specialize
in everybody's field.

VANOWEN
Well, it didn't have any of my own so T
thought I'd try to beat out everybody else.

JUDY
Modest.

VANOWEN
The bio-chemistry wasn't that bad. Neither
was the astronomy or the nuclear physics. But
the speculative math gets me down,

JUDY
Don't worry. You're passing most of us by
like a roadrunner. Beep, beep.
(smiles affectionately)
It won't be long before you're head of the
whole you-know-what instead of you-know-who.
(nods in Kilne's directicn)

VanGwen motions to her secretly:
VANOWEN .
Come here, Judy, I want to ask you about
something.

VanOwen stands and gestures for her to follow. Theywalk

“ across the room together.

As they pass the chess table, we notice that Carey and Tabulis
have fallen into a violent argument. Both are standing on
opposite sides of the chess table, throwing the pieces at the
floar and each other. No one pays much attention to them: this
type of hostility release is very common within the project.

CUT TO:
int. PROJECT GRIEF CORRLDOR _ EVENING
There is a stark contrast of decor as Paul and Judy step from

the warm wood-paneles Game Room into the cold harsh white
corridor of the Grief complex,

 

the Ellsworth Kelley painting, toward the lab,
au) opens the door for Judy and they enter,

cur TO:
 

{

Co

58.

INT, “LABORATORY EVENING

Paul and Judy walk into a modernized version of the original
lab (thouzh not yet up to 1975 standards). A 1963 Air Force
calender hangs on one of the walls; it now sports a newer
AF ergairy than the 1960 version (these AF calenders wets
not gnly serve as time devices, but also as a running gag).

rg hter jer

   

VANOWEN :
What do you think of Kilne's Rosetta Stone
idea? :
JUDY Ch

Well, it's what we've been working tewert for
the last two years.

VANOWEN
I know, but I'm starting to have my doubts.
We've got junk and bits and pieces of scraps
down here that people have collected over
twenty years, yet none of it gives us the
slightest clue. I'm not sure there is such a
thing as a Rosetta Stone, something that
ean be decoded and give us the secret.

UDY
. This is no cakewalk,

ag

Maybe there isn'
you know.

VANOWEN
But don't you think Kilne is putting too.
much emphasis on it?

JUDY
(percéptive) rr’ 0
Ts the the Rosetta Stone idea or Kilne you
object to?

VanOwen starts to answer but stops when he hears the door open.
Judy says under her breath:

JUDY -
Speak of the devil.
August Kilne walks in,

KILNE
Now would you like to take a trip?

VANOWEN
What's up, Augic?
39.

62 CONTINUED

KILNE
There's a sighting coming across the Air Force
hotline, South Dakota, Near Rapid City. Could
be the real thing. Thought we might fly
over.

JUDY
Who's there now?

KILNE
Nobody, The team from Wright-Patterson
won't be there until mid-morning. We can
jet and drive over now and take a look
around, Never can tell what will turn up.
Lou's gonna watch the store. Otis is going
and I figured it was about your turn to go

4 upside.
: VANOWEN
po . Let's go. :
; oN CUT TO:
: 63 EXT. SOUTH DAKOTA HINTERLANDS. NIGHT

Kilne, Carey, Nicholas and VanoOwen,' dressed in civilian
clothes (as always) are seated in an unmarked 1962 car.
Vandwen is at the wheel,

They drive slowly along a deserted road in South Dakota.

} Van0wen userthocare spotlights taslight=ep the side of the
: road as they pass. The countryside is lonely and forboding.
: JUDY

Cheery part of the country.

CAREY
Should of brought my criter boots.

Ahead thet} sec a dim oblong glow moving across the horizon.
Judy gasps’ and VanOwen hits the accelerator.

The car srows nearer the UFO. They look anxiously at it as
ow Carey Teans across Judy's lap to snap photos. In the front
( ~ seat, Kilne sets the sets the l6omm camera and starts shooting

also.
 

64

60.

CONTINUED

They pull up even with the UFO, It is hovering over a small’
lake about 100 yards directly to their left.

VanOwen bréalss the car in the middle of the road and the all
get out. VanQwon swings the spotlight across the open field
between them and the lake,

Kilne and Carey trot across the field, taking pictures all
the while, VanOwen grabs a pistol from the glove compartment
and follows with Judy.

They reach the edge of the lake. The glowing UFO hovers
directly in front of them. They run along the edge of the
lake attempting to get a closer look. As they run, the UFO
slowly turns bluish.

Suddenly the UFO veers and moves directly at them. The air
around them takes on a bluish glow and the marshland at their

‘feet sparkles with static, VanOwen is the first to talk:

VANOWEN
It's a plasma! A goddam plasma!

Carey snakes his fingers as they bristle with electrostatic
shock:
shit. CAREY

The plasma passes aver them, veers sharply upward and takes
off. They watch the glowing plasma disappear slowly into the ~
dark sky.

There is a pause and Kilne says:

KILNE 0.8.
Let's get some sleep.

CUT TO:

EXT, HOLIDAY INN MORNING

Kilne and VanOwen wait as Judy and Otis exit from their
seperate rooms in an Interstate Holiday lun, Judy and Otis sity
good-morning and throw their small havel bags into the trunk,

They all get inte the ear and pull away, We notice from the
diverse license plates and travel stickers that this is a prime
tourist area, An improportionace number of the bumper stickers
promote nearby Mount Rushmore,

  

 
Cc

(
“ 64 CONTINUED

65

61.

Their car pulls on the road, After they drive a bit, they
pass a familiar station wagon headed the opposite direction:
it is Bill Higby and his new assistant headed for the site
of the UFO reports,

CUT TO:

EXT. MACDONALDS MORNING

Mid-Morning and the local MacDonald's is crowded with hungry

‘tourists and their offspring. Kids carrying battered Donald

Duck comics and Mount Rushmore penants nag and tug at their
parents, Other children skip from car to car comparing the
travel stickers pasted on car windows.

MacDonald's familiar (but now obsolete) yellow arches stetch
grostesquely over the assembled vacationers. A sign above

. their heads proclaims, “Over 3 Billion Sold."

Our eves catch a local newsrack. The banner of the Rushmore
News reads, "Lyndon Johnson's First 200 bays," and, in smelier
print, "Air Force to Investigate UFO Sightings."

Nicholas, VanCGwen, Kilne and Carey exit with their burgers,
fries and malts and locate an outdoor table.

They silently set up their food and begin to eat. Paul finally
says:

VANOWEN
A goddman plasma. You know, all those years
I told people about plasmas and I never saw
one before myself. I didn't really believe
they existed. It was like something out of a
textbook,

KILNE
I'd seen one from the air before but never
quite as good as this,

CAREY
If we were in plasma research we could publish
our findings and have it sacked.

JUDY
Instead of being sacked.
62.

CONTINUED

CAREY
That's one thing that'll never happen to us.
World War TIfcould wipe out the government
and Project Grief would keep going.

VANOWEN
Just learn Russian, that's all,

As VanOwen speaks, his eyes catch something of great interest.
He stares forward, his jaw unmoving.

From his P.0.V., we see Sharon walking across the MacDonald's
with her new husband, JIM STAPLES (the men in the framed 1975
photograph). She is wearing a casual dress; he a sport suit.
They are obviously on vacation.

Sharon's eyes catch Paul at the same instant and she boldly
takes Jim's arm and walks toward Paul's table.

Paul barely has time to stand by the time she reaches his
table.

VANOWEN
: (awkward)
Hello, Sharon. .

SHARON .
Hello, Paul. This is Jim Staples. Jim,
this is Paul VanOwen.

Staples is at first curious and friendly, but becomes formal
and polite after he learns who Paul is. He extends his hand:

STAPLES ©
Hello, Paul. I've heard a great deal about
you,

“VANOWEN

(monplussed)

Ah, Sharon, this is Judy Nicholas, Otis Cary
and August Kilne,

. (to others)
This is Sharon...ahh...

SHARON
Sharon Staples.

The others stand and shake hands politely. Sensing the awkward-
ness of the uation, they collect their uncaten food, Judy
takes a particularly careful look at Sharon,

 
65

 

ony

j

o 177

63.

CONTINUED

KILNE
(excusing himself)
We've got to be running along. Nice meeting
you.

Kilne, Carey and Nicholas walk back to the car. Jim Staples
likewose finds a way to excuse himself;

STAPLES
I'll pick up the food, dear.

SHARON
Thanks, darling.

Staples walks toward the counter. Sharon turns to Paul:

. SHARON
I didn't get much of a chance to meet your
girlfriend, She seems nice, ~
. VANCWEN
Judy? Oh no, she just works with us.
(a beat)

I gather you got narried agein.

SHARON
Yes, actually Jim and I are on our honeymoon.
I know this is a pretty prosaic place for a

honeymoon...
(smiles)

but Jim could only spare a couple days and
we'd never been here before, so... . Better
late than never. .

VANOWEN
I guess we didn't travel much.
SHARON
No, I can't say we did,
VANOWEN
Now's Becky?
SHARON

She's in school, Doing quite well,

Sharon offers no wore informacion; Paul doesn't request ie, This its
the life he left behind, It's too late now to regret the decision
or dwell on it,
66

64.

CONTINUED
VANOWEN
I'm glad.
VanQwen starts to say something, but stops.

SHARON
Is there anything you want to say, Paul?

VANOWEN
No, I guess not,

Staples returns with a bag of burgers. VanOwen looks back at
the car were Kilne, Nicholas and Carey are finishing their
lunches.

VANOWEN
I guess I got to go.
SHARON
I was nice seeing you again.
(smiles)

Paul smiles and their shake hands awkwardly. VanOwen turns
and walks to the car.

When he reaches the car, he turns to have a last look, He sees
Sharon and Jim taking their seats under the "Over 3 Billion Sold"
sign. :

. CUT TO:
int. LABORATORY . LATE NIGHT

VanOwen is working alone in the lab late at night. He seems
despondant, his mind unoccupied on his work.

He finally closes the files he is working on, takes off his
white coat and walks out of the lab. Ie switches the light
off lmelserdsem and closes the door,
CUT TO:
Int. CORRIDORS LATE NIGuY
an

VanOwen walks past the Ellsworth Kelleygdown the corridor,
ard the cliustiews, His mind is full of thoughts.

Ne places the key into the elevator and switches it. When the
doors open, he steps in,
67

65.

CONTIRUED

He steps out of the elevator onto another floor. The stark
white corridor is much like the one he just left; in this case
however, the walls are hung with andy Warhol silkscreen prints’
and the floor is covered by a rich red carpet,

This is the "dormitory" floor. The doors bear nameplates and
are liberally spaced. They also bear, meer like im a college
dormitory, personalized grafitti and clippings. (For example,
under Haru Miko's name someone has written, "From the folks
that brought you Pearl Harbor.")

Paul walks slowly down the corridor. He passes Judy Nicholas!
suite and notices her door is open and her light on. She is lying
on the sofa reading. She is wearing a nightgown and covered by a
nineteenth century quilt.

Ne pauses a moment then pokes his head in the room:

judy? VANOWEN
judy? .

JUDY
. (looking up)
Paul. Come on in, Sit down.

ie steps in,

CUT TO:

INT, JUDY NICHOLAS' SUITE LATE NIGHT

VanOwen walks in and sits in an easy chair across from the
sofa. Her darkened room is decorated with tasteful antiques.
It is almost as if stepping into an carlier time, a direct
contrast to the anonymity of Project Grief.

JUDY
I was hoping someone would come by and talk
to me,

VanOwen pours himself a drink from the erystal decanter of
scotch on the coffee table, We gestures to Judy but she
indicates she already has had cnough.

Judy realizes Paul wants to talk so she picks up the
conversation:

 
“68 CONTIRUED

 

66.

: JUDY
Was Sharon your wife?
VANOWEN
Yeah,
JUDY
Do you want to talk about it?
VANOWEN
(a beat)
Yeah,
JUDY
Had you seen her recently?
VANOWEN

No, it'd been about 24-3 years. She's gotten
married again.

JUDY ..
Arn't you glad for her?

VANOWEN
Oh, certainly. But it's just that it
ahh..,makes everything so...final.

JUDY
But you knew that all along.

VANOWEN
Yes, but it had never hit me quite so..,bluntly
before. She asked me why I did it and I didn't
know what to say.

(a beat)
For some strange reason I remembered something
my mother used to tell me as a child, She was
a very religious woman and she had pat explanations
for everything. She had her own definitions of
heaven and hell. For examples she said chat hell
was just like that moment, you know, that moment
your finger is pricked by a pin, the instant of pain
when the pin first broaks the skin, she said hel
was that fleeting moment of intense pain stretched
out into infinity. Well, she also had a definition
of heaven, Heaven, she said, was not harps and
golden streets, but was che place of all knowledge,
where all ouc questions would be answered and where
we would know everything. Whenever T asked her a
question she couldn't answer, like, "low does a

(CONT)
69

67.

CONTINUED

VANOWEN
" (con't)
radio work?, she would always say, "Well,
that's something you'll know when you get
to heaven."
(smiles)

Now, that really appealed to me. I could
never get up much interest in harps, streets
of gold and singing the praises of the Lord
all the time, but this idea of knowing all the
answers fascinated me. And I didn't realize
how much it fascinated me until several years
ago.

(looks around)
Well, I guess that was pretty much what I
wanted to say. Gucci pe spine ar

VanOwen moves as if to stand up but doesn't quite make it out
of his chair.

JUDY
Do you want to stay?

VanOwen lesks at her sympathetically.

JUDY

I always wondered why we never got together
before, This is a pretty strange group, as
you know. The first commume supported by the
United States government. I always thought
you were a pretty good-looking sort.

: (pause)
Well, I'm going to turn off the light. I don't
think it's proper for a lady to ask twice.

VanOwen stands and turns off the light.
CUT TO:

INT, JUDY NICHOLAS' BEDROOM NIGHT

Paul and Judy lie in her high-backed ornately carved nineteenth
century bed. Judy sleeps soundly, tugging on her red-and-white
Early American quilt.

Paul is wide awake; he stares ahead.

As we track toward his Cace we hear the soft strains of the
ORGAN SOUND, The memory is returning.
209

we

70

CONT [RUED

The organ sound mixes with the SAUCER SOUND and they dissolve
into the OUTFR SPACE SOUND.

The scene dissolves into the misty, orangish, distant view of THE SIT!
As the camera continues to move forward, “the’ site dissolves
into OUTER SPACE.

We travel through outer space, moving swiftly and in a single
direction. Ahead of us the constellation Orion draws nearer;
in the belt we see the TIFID NEBULA,

We approach the Tifid Nebula, a pink-and-red mass of expanding
steller clouds which resembles a Georgia O'Keefé "Iris" painting.
The sounds merge into the CELESTIAL SOUND.

The Tifid vagina opens wide and we plunge in.

Inside, all is DARK and we hear the PHONETIC LOOP SOUND: ka-fa-
roo-pho-Llie-ka-fa-roo... .

Faces appear. At first they appear to be those of strange
space creatures, but then we realize they are only distorted
human faces,

or, more acurately, half faces. ‘The half face of Sharon
merges with the half face of Becky merges with the half face
of his mother. A hand is raised up before the faces as if
to indicate, "Go No Further," .

The SAUCER SOUND reemerges and becomes acute and piercing.

The camera goes into the outstretched pale palm and the images

FADES ‘TO WHITE,
. CUT T 70: ree
P5io e

INT, LABORATORY DAY (1975)

A yellow dot appears on the white field then diffuses across
the sereen,

A black Line blinks horizontally across the sereen, the images
comes into focus and the camera-pulls back from an extreme
close-up on Vandwen's eye.

Paul, wearing, a white shirt, Lies on the Lab table. His head is
on a pillow, .

Lou Helwan leans over him with an cyedropper containing a yellow
fluid.
69.

CONTINUED

Paul blinks his eye a few times and sits up on the edge of
the table,

HEKMAN
Close your eye now, Paul.

VanOwen closes his eye tighthsg and lickman tapes a piece of
gauze over it.

HEKMAN
Okay, Chief.

VanOwen stands and touches the gauze gentley.

HEKNAN
Just leave the patch on a couple days and
the solution should integrate into the cornea,
If it works, we won't have to do the other
eye. Unbutton your shirt,

VanQven unbuttons his shirt, revealing his bare chest. We see
a half dozen dark snots where the sensors have been implated.
ALL ths sutures sve healing nicely.

HEKMAN
And the leg?

VanOwen pulls up his pin-striped pants leg revealing several
long thin wires running up his calf just under the skin.

: : HEKMAN
Hey, that's coming along real well. You're
in great shape.
(taps his head)
Knock on wood,

VanOwen smiles and lowers his pants leg.

VANOWEN
(buttoning his shirt)
Is anybody up at the site?

NEKMAN
No. I didn't think you wanted anyone there,
especially with all these sightings. We can
ving, the “equipment in later,

VANOWEN

deplete But is anybody from the air Force
there?
70.

( -0 CONTINUED

HEKMAN
Well, Wright-Patterson has sent a couple
Men up to Sw4mey Idaho. Just to calm the
«ahh, public concern.
VANOWEN ‘

Who's there?

HEKMAN :
Higby. The usual guy. Bill Higby.
"eur To:

71 EXT. EVANS, IDAHO DAY

Lt. Bill Higby stands with a policeman on the crowded sidewalk
of a small Idaho ‘town. |

The street is congested with out-of-state cars and gawking
sightseers. It is, in brief, an updated version of Clarenceville,
Indiana, fy September 1960.

The same elderly man is selling bocks and pamphlets from the
trunk of his "UFOMOBILE." The car is a little newer, though
still battered, but the literature is the same: "I Made Love
to a Space Creature."

Further down the block, a professionally-printed sign reads:

Prof. Robt. Allen Smith
will lecture on the subject
"Flying Saucers Are Real"

The gaudy sign bears a picture of Prof. Smith and a UFO. ame
Underneath is written, "Evans High Auditorium, June 6, 8:00
pm, $3.00," Prof, Smith has come up in the world.

Nighy is calking confidentially with the policeman when LEO
ROSS, a modishly dressed young man, walks up to him,

ROSS
Lt, Bill Higby?
RIGBY
~, Yes?
a ROSS

I'm Leo Ross. I'm a reporter from the
Chicage Tribune,
73

     

71.

& 2 conrINuED

HIGBY
Oh, hello. I don't think we've met
before.
ROSS
No, we haven't .é#tuuranmes I was just
transfered from the business page.
HIGBY
Is Claude Ames still on the staff there?
ROSS ,
He's the News Editor now.
HIGBY

A great guy. I really like Claude a lot.
Had some dealings with him years ago.

ROSS
About these UFO reports...
HIGBY
The Air Force has already distributed its
Statement on that.
ROSS -

I've got it. I thought you might amplify
some things for me. .

Hibgy places his arm around Ross‘ shoulders in a confidential
manner and takes him aside, It is a show of phony sincerity
worthy of Higby's mentor, Lt, Paul VanOwen.

* HIGBY
Just ask whatever you want. I'11 give you
the asnwers as straight as I can.

CUT TO:

INT, CHICAGO TRIBUNE DAY

alks past a long bank of teletype machines at the
imine offices, He is wearing a floral patterned
fe and red velvet suic.

  

open

INSTDE AMESE OFFICE, the deskplate reads: "Claude Ames,"
Various banner editions of the trib hang on the walls, Anes,
his feet proped on his desk, is Talking into his intercom,
N.

{ 73 CONTINUED

72.

Claude Ames now shows cach of his 40-odd years; the reporter's

life is not conducive to physical fitness. His taste in
clothes has also changed, but not improved: he wears a Robert
Hall knit blazer, yellow shirt and straight tie (or some other
mixture of in-out of fashion.

AMES

(to intercomn)
I don't care if he is the President.
Damn the consequences, What are we,
men or mice? He still can't park in
my spot. If he wants to park in my
spot, then they should find me another
spot,

Ames smiles to himself: a good bit of game-bravado.

BLACK SECRETARY 0.S.
That's telling 'em, boss.
(a beat)
Leo is here to see you.

AMES |
Send him in,

BLACK SECRETARY 0.S,
Yessum, .

Leo Ross walks into Ames' office.’ Ames swings his feet off
his desk and sits upright.

AMES
(motioning toward secretary)
Can't get no respect, How's it going, Leo?

ROSS
Just got back from Idaho.

AMES
And?

ROSS
Wild goase chase. A lot of people secing
stuff in the sky. Plasmas, whatever.

AMES
Who'd you talk to?

ROSS
A couple witness, police, Air Force Lieutenant
Bill lighby. Ile gave me: the whole story,
( ~
“f3 CONTINUED

om 3

73.

AMES
What did you think of it?
ROSS
A bunch of bullshit. -
High ANES
That's *, alright. Still nothing there?
ROSS
Not much,
AMES

Write it up that way. Page 9. He anda
guy named VanOwen really hung me up when I
was about your age. Had me chasing UFOs
through the night. Phoned in my first
"scoop"--air balloons. Almost lost my job.
Back then we trusted the military.

. : ROSS
Bet you bought a fallows shelter tco.

AMES
That's not far from the truth, I'1l tell you
what is interesting, though. This VanOwen guy.
Ex-Lieutenant James Paul VanOwen. Goes into

some super-secret military operation about

15 years ago, nobody hears from or sees him
since, I triclto do 2 story on him about ten
years back, got nowhere plus, Interviewed a
a scientist name of Judy Nicholas who quit the
Air Force and dropped VanOwen's name somewhere.
It was like talking to the Buddha--couldn't get
a thing out of her.

(a beat) .
So here's the kicker. VanQwen shows up in his
hometown of Dayton last week. Sees his banker,
then his ex-wife. Closes his accounts, Somebody
in Dayton tipped me. So what's up? Something
happening? Smells funny to me,

ROSS
You want me to follow it up?

AMES
Check it a little, Maybe I'll-help you. There
could be something there. It's about time to
get back into that case. .

 
 

74,
CONTINUED

ROSS
And if there is? Who gets the ercdit?

AMES
(mock shock) ' bt
Leo! You don't trust old Claude? We share Creat.

share credit t I get first position.
oo ee eee amen 6 beat)

ROSS
(smiles) Bat aqet.-
Okay. .

CUT TO:

EXT. INDIANAPOLIS NIGHT

Vanowen's black Limousine is parked along a street of
middle-class homes. - :

CUT TO:

inl. DARKENED HOUSE NIGHT

The door opens and the half-lit face of a pretty girl speaks
from the shadows:

BECKY
I was expecting you. Mother called me a
week ago. She said you might be coming.

Paul VanOwen, wearing his conservative three-piece suit, steps
out of the shaodws and approaches his daughter.

VANOWEN
Hello, Becky.

She tentutively embraces him; he returns the embrace, She
walks into the living room and turns on a soft light. They
pause a moment, strainging ta recognize each other across the
darkness of fifteen years.

Becky, now 23, is an attractive though wan young woman.

VANOWEN
Are you home alone?

BECKY
The baby's here. She's sleeping. You want
to see her?

VanOwen follows as Beeky walks Into the bedroom,

SR tee ie ee ene tee tenet tie eee ate eee
76

75.

CONTINUED
VANOWEN
Where's Eric?
BECKY
Don't ask.
VANOWEN
I won't,

Becky turns on a lamp in the bedroom and walks over to the
crib, Paul looks at his sleeping grand-daughter.

. BECKY
She looks just like any other six-month old
child, But at least she's mine,

Becky looks up searchingly at her father. Paul puts his arm
around her and she rests her head against his shoulder.

VANOWEN
Do you have a neighbor who can watch over
the baby?

BECKY
. (hesitant)
Yes. :
VANOWEN.
Then call her, We're going to go out,

You and I. You look like a young lady
that could use some checring up.

CUT TO:

INT. BOWLING ALLEY NIGHT

Paul and feeky are sitting in the gallery of a small bowling
alley with their legs hung over the row in front of them.
VanOwen has unbuttonced his coat and vest, taken off his tie
and loosened his collar.

They are holding, bottles of beer and laughing. Beckly, slightly
drunk, look at the empty lane ahead of them:
4
BECKY
Ney, it's your shot,

VANOWEN
It is?
NL

76,

(“76 CONTINUED

BECKY
Yeah. I shot last.
VANOWEN
When was that?
. BECKY
Just a little while ago.
VANOWEN

(getting up)
Okay. If you say so.

VanO.1c1) gets up a wobbles ober to the rack and picks up a
bowling ball. His first shot manages to hit six or seven pins.
He turns back to Becky with a satisfied expression across his
face. She properly acknowledges his accomplishment.

VanOwen winds up wel a second ball but his shot not only misses
all_the pins, it jumps the lane and rolls down the,gutter.om °
Chea utitetares . . roth ing

Becau:¢ tne belli hus jumped lanes, the automatic pinsetter wiil
not clear the frame. VanOwen, rigghtfully angered by this
malfunction, balances himself on the return rack and carefully
steps his way down the lane. All down the alley, bowlers turn
their heads to watch hin. :

  

VanOwen steps off the rack and kicks over the remaining pins
with one broad swing of his leg. Beaming with pride, VanOwen
struts back up the lane toward his applauding daughter.

He plo»s in his seat next to Becky;

VANOWEN
.Now it's your turn,

Becky's mood has turned from night to day. She has rediscovered
her father. .

BECKY
Give me a break,

VANOWEN
O--Kay, It's the double standard, you know.
But 1'11 wait.
(swigs from his: beer)
i
“76 CONTIRUED

on

77,

BECKY
Paul, I can't believe you. You flabbergast
me, You've completely taken away the little
specch I was all prepared to give you.

VANOWEN
‘(sipping beer)
Which speech was that?

BECKY

(becomming serious)
Well, I was going to start out by asking you
where you were when I won the city forensics
contest, when I had my first date, when I
graduated from high school? Then I was going
to ask where you were when I needed a father
to give me away in marriage? Where were you
when my stepfather had to pay $5,000 to send
me to a shrink three days a week all through
college--all of which failed anyway because
I only ended up dropping out and getting married
much teo young? That's what T was going te
ask you.

VANOWEN
(saddened)
That's a lot of questions, Becky.

. BECKY
But one answer,

» VANOWEN
I make no apologies for my life.

BECKY
Can you give me a reason then?

VANCWEN
Not even that, There is a reason, but it
only makes sense to me.

BECKY
But I need reasons, Especially now,

VANOWEN
(embracing her)
Becky, T'm so happy to find you again, So
happy so find you such a strong healthy young
woman,
(kisses her forchead)
Ce

CG

CONTINUED

BECKY
But when will I see you again? Where can I
get in touch with you?

VANOWEN
(evasive)
Well, that's a little difficult to say
at the moment. :

BECKY
Mother said reporters visited her after you
left. They wanted to know about you. It
has something to do with that, doesn't it?

VanOwen is upset by the news about the reporters, but quickly
hides this from his daughter.

. VANOWEN .
Not exactly. A little maybe, It's nothing.

BECKY
But when will I see you again.

VanOwen decides to stcp being evasive and looks straight at
shter, His eyes are filled with love and concern, but
sage is unequivocal:

 

his me

VANOWEN
You won't. This is the last time you will
ever see me,

CUT TO:

EXT. INDIANAPOLIS NIGHT

Becky closes the door and VanOwen walks slowly down the front
steps and across the Lawn toward his limousine. His vest,
coat and collar are still open. °

Opening, the door to his car, VanOwen notices a renovated old
Checker parked up the street, Me stares at the man at the
wheel a moment, but is unable to fix his face. Claude Ames
returns his stare; Leo Ross sits beside him.

VanOwen gets into his car and drives off,

Sitting behind the wheel, VanOwen is deep in thought, Sereen

FADES to DARK BLUE, 7
Pa Ace:
cur ‘to: oe Te

Soo
79

79,

EXT. BARKSDALE ATB NIGHT (1967)

Small star-like dots appear on the blue field. The screen
comes into focus and we realize they are stars. We are
watching the southern skies.

Camera pans down to Barksdale SAC Air Force Base in northern
Louisiana,

INSIDE the 142ND SQUADRON HEADQUARTERS, a red emergency light is
flashing. A 1967 Air Force calender hangs on the wall,

Three young pilots, ED TUPELO, MAURICE JOHNS and TIM ROCCO,
hastily fasten their Air Force jackets and trot out toward’ the
hanger. A uniformed Sipiens runs beside them.
OERIC EN ae en
bOt—

Let's go. Kick it in.

Three F-105 "Thunderbirds" are being prepared for flight as
the pilots job toward then.

The pilets climb into their interceptor jets and the hatches
are closed behind them.

The jets zoom down the runway into the night skies one by
one.

After the last jet leaves: a MEMBER OF THE GROUND CREW hustles
over to the nonweprbet officer. .

GROUND CREWMAN
What's happening.’ What's the scramble for?
OERICER

(watching jets)
Unidentified radar readings.

CUT TO:

EXT, LOUISLANA SKIES NIGHT

‘The F-105s assume a standard flighe formation at about 30,000
Feat,

Ed Tupelo sits in the COCKPIT of his F-105, The pale red Lights
of the instrument pane) are reflected against his Lace, To his
right and lefe we cian see the lights of Rocco and Johns' jats.
GU

~- tL ~~ iy

80,

CONTINUED

TUPELO
6-10, Noney-Babe to Ground Control. 30,000
feet on on course. Mach 1. 18 degrees
north-northwest, We don't see anything yet.

Tupelo's P.0.V¥.: the black skies yield only the familiar twinkling
lights of distant stars.

GROUND CONTROL 0.S.
Ascend to 40,000 feet and continue on course.

TUPELO
Roger. .
Tupelo pulls back on the throttle and the three jets rise in
formation,

Leveling off, Tupelo again searches the skies for anything
usual, He checks his radarscreen. A green dot beeps at about
40 degrees. .
: TUPELO
Honey-Babe te Cround Central, We're getting
something now on the PPI. 42 degrees tracking
north-northwest at 42 degrees. Yessir. We

should be gaining on her now. Am accelerating
to 900. ‘

The green dot draws closer to the center of the radarscreen.

* Then, suddenly, a DIM LIGHT begins to materialize ahead of

the jets.

It grows in proximity and sizé until Tupelo recognizes the
shape of a huge circular flying ship.

TUPELO . :
Holy shit, there it is, Honey-Babe to Ground ; ¢ lk
Control. It's right ahead of us and big as w fectbatt Field.
rGee Am activating camera systems, It looks
metallic and a least 100 yards across.
(to fellow pilots)
Maury? Tim? You see it?

JOUNS
Sure as hell do, What is it?

' ROCCO
Me too, PEScoming, on strong, Seems to have
som: red Light: pattems across the center, Or
something, 1 never seen anything, Like it,

 
81.

oO
_

“79 CONTINUED

TUPELO
Aright, boys, let's move in and have a
look-see. Accelerate to 1,000 and proceed
toward object,

The jets close in on the UFO.

ROCCO
I'm losing my PPI reading.

TUPELO
Object now moving at great speed. Am losing co" e

visual and radar Renesere (eS Benes [ :)
The UFO vanishes into the night. (a ear,

st s gent

v

: TUPELO
Honey-Babe to Ground Control. Do you still
have a reading? Await instructions.

!
bay GROUND CONTROL 0.S.

. >) Pursue at all cogts,
KD
TUPELO

wee Fie ee

Roger, Accelerating to 1,200. Approaching
full trottle. Object completely gone now,

GROUND CONTROL 0.S.
We're losing too, Honey-Babe, It's climbing
fast at 65 degrees.

TUPELO
65 degree...?

JOHNS
(interrupting)
Oh, My God! Ed! Here it is!

: Tupelo swivels around and see the UFO moving toward them at
i Ereat speed.

‘TUPELO
It's coming right at us! Take evasive action!

Even before he finishes the sentence, Tupelo sharply banks his
=, jet to the left, Johns and Rocco follow suit.

The UFO zooms right across the position the diving jets held
the moment before.

mee
(
82,
rm

{
(79 CONTINUED

3 ' ROCCO 0,S.
e-sus!

: JOINS
Ed? Tim? You alright?

Tupelo pulls his F-105 out of the dive.
GROUND CONTROL 0.S.

It's circling--180-225-290-315 degrees--and
slowing down. 800 knots, Pursue at all costs.

TUPELO
I'm okay. One more time, boys. Let's
try her again.
. ROCCO
) : What?
TUPELO
Let's go!
= ~, Ahead, the UFO seems to wait for the jets to reform and
“SN accelerate, They pursuc.
TUPELO

Honey-Babe to Ground Control. We're coming
on it again. 1,000 knots. 42,000 feet and.
rising. 3 degrees north, .

GROUND CONTROL 0.S.
Commence firing.

"TUPELO
What the hell? Whose orders are those?

The UFO grows closer.

GROUND CONTROL 0O.S.

(new voice)
Licutenant Tupelo, this is Commander Akins,
These orders come from the top. SAC conmiand
takes full responsibility. Commerce firing
immediately:

TUP 11.0
ee (checking altimeter)
— 42,000 feet.

. : GROUND CONTROL 0O.S.
ri \ (old voice)
Fire onc!
~79

 

83.

CONTINUED -

TUPELO
44,000 feet, Alright boys, let ‘em go.

The F-105s release a barrage of rockets at the object, The
UFO veers upward, just evading the missiles.

TUPELO
46,000 fcet and climbing, Fire two.

ROCCO
Jesus-fucking-Christ !

TUPELO
47,000 feet, Fire!

The UFO climbs again, evading the second rocket barrage.

. TUPELO
48,000 feet and climbing. 1,200 knots.
ue opening it up full trottle. 49,000
eet. :

ROCCO
I'm dropping out. My engine can't take it.
I'm losing pressure.

TUPELO
You with me, Maury?
JOHNS
Roger.
_* ‘TUPELO

50,000 fect, Fire three,

As Rocco's jet decends, the two remaining F-105s fire their
third round of rockets, The saucer again evades the missiles.

The UFO climbs, circles and hovers above the jets, as if to
taunt them to go higher.

TUPELO
$2,000 fect, Wave reached ceiling. Severe
engine strain. Losing pressure.

GROUND CONTROI. 0.S.
Discontinue pursuit, Discontinue pursuit
immediately,

JONUNS
I'm still alright, Ed. I'm going up after it,
co . , 84,
CN
“79 CONTINUED
TUPELO
Maury!

GROUND CONTROL 0.S.
. Ground Control to Honey-Bear, Discontinue
' pursuit immediately,

TUPELO
Roger. Let's go back, Maury.

Tupelo's jet starts to descend but Johns' F-105 continues to

climb.
JOUNS
54,000 feet. It's coming up on my right.
,- GROUND CONTROL 0O.S.
Lieutenant Johns! Discontinue pursuit! Return
\ to base immediately!
~ sons :
os 4 57,000 feet, Here she is, I'm gonna fire.
° Swe
Above us there is a flash in the night skies.
GROUND CONTROL 0.S.
Lieutenant Johns! Maury!
JOUNS €.S.
60,000 feet. Firing. Oh. What? My God!
Oh, Ed... . ‘God! Look at it! Oh, Ed...
John's jet bursts into flames and plunges downward, High above
him the UFO vanishes from sight.
There is only static on the air waves. Tupelo watches Johns'
plane crash toward the earth.
CUT TO:
: 80 INT. BARKSDALE AFB DAY

COMMANDER AKINS, Paul VanOwen (age 47) and Lou Iekman stand
in a stark Air Force at Barksdale,

oS THROUGH A TWO-WAY MIRROR, we see Ed Tupelo sipping, coffee and
o J talking. He is being questioned by Bill Higby and an assistant,

Tupelo pestures expansively as ho talks, Wis motions indicate
the path and fCliphe pattern of the UFO,
co

(

~

80 CONTINUED

 

85.

AKINS 0.S.
I just want to make it clear I acted only
after specific orders from command.

VANOWEN 0.S.
Don't worry, Commander. You won't be held
responsible,

AKINS 0.S.
Who is responsible? There's going to be a
lot of questions asked.

VANOWEN 0.58. .
No one is responsible. Maurice Johns died
chasing a wheather balloon he thought was a UFO.

AKINS 0.58.
(refering to Tupelo)
There's the problem. Ed Tupelo says he's going
fe tell the press everything. He wants to be a
ero, :

: VANOWEN O.S.
And the other pilot?

AKINS 0.S.
He accepts the cover story. He's a good career
man,

: VANOWEN 0. 5S.
And the film and tapes?

AKINS 0,S.
There was a malfunction in the recording system.
You have the only copies.

VANOWEN
Well, let me talk to him then,

Camera closes on VanOwen's disturbed face.

CUT TO:

BAARKSDALE ARB DAY

VanOwen paces in front of Tupelo, who uncomfortably watches his
every move, Paul is on his bese debunking behavoir;:
CY CONTINUED

86.

VANOWEN
This would not be.the first time a pilot | Cau
“absolutcly swore'4a flying saucer which | \e Cam
later turned out to bea weather balloon.
TUPELO
(interrupting)

If you will excuse me, sir, but I have heard
all those explanations before. I know what I
sav, And I'm going to tell my story.

VanOwen thinks a moment, then changes his stategy. He through
trying to convince or appease Tupclo, His face flashing with
anger, he turns on Tupelo? kieseenmarimaies

d
C

VANOWEN
Alright, Mr. Know-it-all, Mr. Sky King. Listen,
loser, I don't care what you think you saw in
the skies. This isn't your sixth grade science
glass you're talking to now, this is the Stategic
Air Country which has respensibility for protecting
this whole goddamn country, and we are not going

‘to issue a reported saying an F-105 SAC pilot get

zapped chasing wome gcutball asvess the sky.

(a beat)
And neither are you, small-timer, This is a Top
Secret matter, and it's going to stay that way.
This is more important than one man's life.

TUPELO
(determined)
I'll expose it all if necessary,

 

VANOWEN
You just kissed your wings goodbye, Lieutenant,
did you know that? I£ you don't step in line,
soldier, you're never going to step near a plane
again. Your ass is going to be court-marshalled,
You'll never work again in your life. ‘The Air
Foree will black-ball you to your grave.

TUPI.O
(weakening)
I can only say what I saw,

VANOWEN
(taking him by: the collar)
You just try it,

cur TO;
87.
INT, _BARKSDALE AFB . DAY

VanOwen, Hekman and Commander Akins stand in a CORRIDOR.
VanOwen is speaking to Akins:

VANOWEN
You'd better put Lieutenant Tupelo under
observation in the psychiatric ward for
several weeks. e's under severe strain.
I'm sure he'll be alright, though.

Akins walks off and VanOwen relaxes his calloused exterior.
He is sick with himself and what he has done. He walks with -
Hekman part way down the corridor,

Hekman's expression requests an explanation from VanOwen.
Paul finally turns to him and says sadly:

VANOWEN thik
Let this be a lesson to you, Lou. You throrght
T'nyéy an honest decent man, Well, this shows
yee how quickly the best-of-menm can revert to

eing the things they-hate;most. vied
a beat) QW

I think I gotta puke: hue

 

VanOwen walks down the corridor alone.

cut To:

INT. PROJECT GRIEF MOVIE THEATER DAY

We watch the flickering black-and-white MOVIE IMAGE of Maurice |
Johns exploding plane. It crashes to the earth as we hear his
last words:

JOHNS 0.S.
60,000 feet. Firing. Oh. What? My God!
Oh, Ed... . God!. Look at it! Oh, Ed...

The movie projector shuts off and the house lights come up.

The various staff members of Project Gricf are sporaticly seated
in the plush Grief screening room. The walls are adorned with
framed movig posters from such films as War of the Worlds, They
Came from OUter Space and When Worlds Collide.

The stall members file somberly out of the room, leaving Kilne
and Van0wen,

Paul walks over to Kilne:
o

~
(/3 CONTINUED

88,

VANOWEN
Augie, this is the last time I'm going to
cover-up for one of your mistakes. One man
is dead, another is in the bannana ward. And
what have we got to show for it? Nothing.

(a beat)
I think we've been doing this all wrong. First
we try to find a Rosetta Stone, but that doesn't
work. They we decide to try to shoot one down.
Blast it out of the skies, Get a hold of a
saucer, or at least a piece of one. Well, that
didn't work either and now we have a dead pilot
to account for, :

KILNE
I don't like to see that any more than you
do, Paul.
VANOWEN

Well look, we haven't had any success trying
to communicate, We beam radio signals, math
problems, tonal scales} no response. We're
at the wrong erd of some crazy surcvellieace
game. We can't make them communicate, and
they don't volunteer of their own. Maybe they
don't think we're worthy of it--God knows if
I'd blame them, Maybe it's just like if we
discovered some prehistoric animals on a
Mesozoic planet. Would we walk over to a
brontosaur and say, “Hi. We're from Earth.
What's up?" No, we've got to stop dealing with
them on our terms and start dealing with them
of their terms, :

KILNE
How can we do that?

VanOwen and Kilne step into the corridor. By the door hangs
a movie poster from The Craduate with a sign reading, "Thursday,

9:00."

VANOWEN
We'll juse have to Figure out their terms,
Figure out how they cawmmicate, The dolphins
don't ask us to speak dolphinese, we shouldn't
ask them to speak Karthian.

KILNE
Go on.
o , 89.
‘
“83 CONTINUED

VANOWEN
(thinking)
Well, we'll have to entice them to come
to us. Stop chasing them. Lure them close
enough so we can observe and decipher,

KILNE ~
What do we have that they want? fe al :
a-{& .
VANOWEN. - c
Give me time, I'm thinking.
, CUT TO:
84 INT. GRIEF KITCHEN NIGHT

VanOwen is catching an evening snack in the large Project Grief
kitchen, He takes a bite from a sandwitch and sips the last
swallow from a glass of milk,

Empty lass in hand, he walks over to the refrigerator to a
refill,

 

‘ As be opens the door, the refrigerator motor activates, creating
, a RUM. ‘The hum quickly dissolves to the sharp, piercing SAUCER
SOUND. . . :

Paul quickly shuts the door, killing the sound. Frightened he
rests momentarily against the door,
)

4c

 

We hear Lou lekman's footsteps as he walks in:

HEKMAN C
You alright, Paul? . “

Hea. tt

 

t VANOWEN
: (straightening up)
Yeah, just these dim headaches again,

HERES VAR Ow EN «thet ete
They were gonc for a couple years, but chen} M4
‘ they came-back again, Sometimes I hear noises,
sometimes I sce things, sometimes I think
people are other people,

 

(a-vegt)
~. Now old are you Lou? —yen ae,
o~ 2) NEKMAN

Thirty-two,
yer
wr
c™ CONTINUED. os >)
- VANOWEN Gua
Why do you stay herc? Wee
re
HEKMAN

I like it here, Paul. f4Hell, I was never
much with people on the outside. I was
always an unhappy kid, This is a godsend
for me.

VANOWEN
Well, this is the last chance.for me, I've
got to get to the bottom of this, I've got .
to know--that's the only way I'll straighten

out,

(thinks)
We're gonna start a new program, Lou. We're
gonna bring 'em to us. Call it Project Entice,

CUT TO:

INT. GRIEF LABORATORY DAY(1968)

A large helf-built flying saucer model stands in the main iad.
The tables have been pushed back to make room for it,

Hekman, Miko and Carey are meticulously constructing the model.
They have finsihed the silver-prey lower structure and are

working on the rim. A 1968 Air Force calender hangs en-theawaid
behind them, . .

Several miniature saucer models sit on a work table and the walls
are hung with complex blueprints,

VanOwen studies the model then walks up to Helman;:.

VANOWEN
Lou, you haven't got it quite right. If
the reflection is tq run dow this section
of the craft, the angle here will have to
be banked up a bit more, °

CAREY
How's Kilne's work coming?

VANOWEN
Awh, he and Tabulis are still trying to
perfect that pulsar simulatation pattern,
Radiograms to Mars.

HEKMAN
(picking up earlier conversation)
Then where will we put the Lights?
87

 

, N — 91
ANOwE .
Same places Suet @ ftle deepen
CONTIRUED

MIKO
How's the dome coming?

VANOWEN
OK. It's the accounting that's a headache,
The AF plastics division wants to know: why
a $28,000 single-construction dome falls
under the category of general expenses. He
told me the Air Force runs a very tight ship

CAREY
What did you tell him?

VANOWEN
I told him to stick his tight ship up his
tight ass.

CUT TO:

EXT. ARTIC CIRCLE » DAY

Wind whistles across a vast snowy wastelend. A cluster of
trucks, ecarth-isovers and trailers are huddled together against
the artic cold, :

A short distance away bundled workmen are constructing a huge
semi-circular "building." Its stark skeletonic structure
resembles a huge net designed to catch the winter wind.

Braced against the wind, Paul VanOwen, wrapped in furs and
overcoats, watches the worlumen climb the scaffolding. VanOwen
is tied to the main trailer by a long rope.

Lou Hekwan, also tethered to the trailer, plods over to Vandwen
and taps him on the shoulder. Together they turn and, drawing
in their ropes, pulls themselves back to the trailer.

CUT TO:

INT. MAIN TRAILER DAY

An architecture model ind "artist's rendering" of the in-prograss
structure rest on a table in the trailer:

 

Tt appears to be a three-story structure, approximately twenty
yards deep and one hundyved yards in circumference. There are
foux colored horizontal panel oranse, blue, red and yellow--
running, across its inside si e,. There are poneral markings
on these panels, but they do not represent anything,

 

   
92.

CONTINUED ‘oh a
AY AST SS

August Kilne sits-waiting in the trailer. His coat is open
and he is sipping hot coffee,

Slapping themselves, VanOwen and lickman climb into the trailer
and close the door behind than,

VANOWEN,
(to Kilne)
Hello, Augie.

HEKMAN
(to Vandwen)
Even the workmen don't stay out more than
a half hour at a time, chief.

VANOWEN
Don't worry about me,
: (to Kilne)
What in God's name brings you up here, Aguie?

KILNE
(standing)
I hate to have to say this, Pav], but T have
orders to tell you to cease this program
immediately. I'm sorry.
(hands Paul letter)
It comes from the Joint Chiefs. Top Secret.

. VANOWEN
But they don't even know what this project
is about. :
KILNE

That's why their upset about sinking two million
into ite alsendy. The war's draining a lot of
money and there's no end in sight to this
boondoggle up here, Now that Nixon's been

elected the Joint Chiefs are worried. They-ts, [vy
ean only hide so much money.
VANOWEN

Then they can dam well hide some more. Only one
dollar in twenty ever reaches the battle front anyway,

KILNE
But these are orders,

. VANOWEN
Seucl the orders. This project will continue,
What are they yoing to do? Send a battallon up
here to stop me? Cut off funds and risk me
exposing Project Cricl? The hook's in now. They've
got to dam well continue,
COCONUT TY

 

 
on
~

88

93.
CONTINUED

VANOWEN
(to Hekman)
When is the saucer going to be delivered?

4

[EKMAN
Three weeks, They're bringing it in by C-5.

KILNE
What's going to be dumb enough to come and,
look at your billboard, Paul?

VanOwen's passion transcends his logic at this point, He has
taken the right course and reason will not sway him from it.

VANOWEN
They will come because I say they will. The
extraterrestials will have to come, Their
curiosity will bring them-here. Sooner or
later they'll come down a take a look. And
then we'll see who'll laugh last when I get
my total readings: pictures, radio waves,

. spectroscope readings--we'll have the key we've
been searching for. They're out there, Augie,
I know that. And sooner or leter they'll come
here, They have to.

Kilne looks at Hekman who only shrugs as if to say,-"Sure, he's
erazy but what can I do about it?"

VANOWEN
I'm willing to stake my position on it, Augie.
And my job, . :
KILNE
You may have to.
CUT TO:
Ext. ARTIC CIRCLE NIGUT

Banks of lights shine on the nearly completed structure, Only
the panels need to be added.

A tether line leads into the interior of the structure.
INSIDE, Paul VanOwen, breathing steamy air, checks over the
reeently installed equipment, There are camera, recorders and
monitors of all kinds.

Ne looks out a camera and sees the inclosed sewi-circle: empty,
waiting.

cur 0:
  

om:

. 94,
ARTIC CIRCLE DAY
The winter sun shines across the snowfields. A giant C-5
stands on a makeshift runway. In the distance stands the
nearly completed structure, :

A snowtruck drives across the snow pulling the completed saucer
model. It is a near replica of the one seen by the Barksdale
pilots.

VanOwen watches and approves, His face beams with pride.
‘ CUT To:

90 INT. MAIN TRAILER — DAY
VanOwen and Heluman are looking over an aviation chart,

VANOWEN
Does the pilot have his instructions?

HEKMAN
Yes. He's going to take the saucer model up
every sideral month starting the 5th. air

a 4 space has been cleared, Then he'll bring it
hoa back into position. He's part of the DEW
, line, there's no security problems.
VANOWEN
What does he think?
HEKMAN

Well...

* VANOWEN
VanOwen's Folly? Let them think what they
want. How are the panels coming?

HEKMAN
They should be here any day now.
VANOWEN
Are they...ahh...?
NEKMAN
(reassuring)

They're just as you designed them, Paul.

-~\ VanOven smiles,

~ CUT TO:
 

 

95.

EXT. ARTIC CIRCLE NIGUT

VanOwen and Helman stand by the trailer watching a jet
idling on the runvay. Behind the jet sits the saucer model,

The jet moves down the runway, pulling the saucer behind it.
As the jet picks up sp@ed, it cuts its lights and activates
the Lights mounted in the saucer model,

VanOwen and Nekman follow the jet's course by eye, then by
binoculars, as it zooms into the artic night.

Far away in the sky, we see a mysterious UFO moving seemingly
underits own power, It's soft red and blue lights blink
systematically,. As it flies we hear the ewemetreretbine so fF
SAUCER SOUND.

 

CUT TO:

* EXT. HISTORY WALL NIGHT

Paul VanGiren stonds ja frent of the mulsi-
colored histery wali. The saucer model las beea placed iu
the semi-circle in front of him,

The camera slowly ZOOMS past VanOwen, past the glowing saucer
and approaches the history wall. : .

Banks of floodlights shine down upon the wall, illuminating it
as bright as a billboard. :

As we draw closer, we realize the semi-circular structure is
actually a giant exhibit. Each of its four colored horizontal
panels displays a different phase of man's development. Only
pictosrams and elemental symbols are used to trace the planct's
istory. :

The camera slowly PARS across cach of the panels:

The orange panel shows the earth's relationship to the sun, the
sun to to galaxy's, and the galaxy to the know universe. The
blue panel traces the geological history of the earth from
prehistory to the present, The red panel delineates the course
of terrestial life from anomia to modern man, The yellow panel
shows the progress of science from primitive man to the present,

 

As the eamera pans, the saucer sound grows into the OUTER SPACE
SOURD and Finally expanls into the CELESTIAL SOUND,

 

Te Ls an bupre e sight: the history of man and his planet .
ecapsulized on a gigantic billboard in the midst of the artic nist.

oir van,
o

i

a

cs

N

U

96.

“93 INT. “GRIEF LABORATORY NIGHT

A long bank of monitors silently wait in the main Project
Gricf lab, They are registering every activity within the
semi-circular artic history wall,

A vidarmonitor shows the saucer model resting in its proper
place. All the monitors are dormant.

The screen FADES TO WIITE, . 7

nos ht
CUT TO: :
SF

94 INT. GRIEF LABORATORY DAY (1975)

4
,

NO

A_ xed dot appears in the center of the white field. A mass
of green slow z encroaches from the edges of the screen until
it surrounds the white circle containing the red dot.

The screen comes into focus and pulls back and we recognize the
right side of Paul VanOwen's head.

VanOyren, anesthetized, lics on a tchle in the lab, A green sheet
has been puiled up tu nis neck; belts hold him rigidly to the
table under the sheet.

A white circle has been shaved above his right temple. A green
surgical cloth covers the unshaved hair.

Hekman and Miko, wearing masks and gowns, stand over VanOwen.

Using a high-speed surgical drill Miko drills a pin-point hole
into VanOwen's craniun, . .

After the wound has been cleaned, Hekman inserts a miniature
thin electrode into the hole with a surgical clamp. It is an
exact fit, . .

They prepare to drill another hole.

CcuT To;

95 INT. PROJECT GRIEF--GROUND LEVEL DAY

~~

VanOwen steps out of the elevator at ground level. Smiling
and confident, he appears in the best of health, We is wearing
ras natty three-piece conservative suit.

Wis hair has been brushed over the shaved area on his right
temple, He couches the spot gingerly to make sure the hair is-
In place, neds to the Guard and walks down the corridor toward
the center of Lhe AP complex,

cur pn.
97,

(96 int. “AF RECEPTION DESK DAY

‘ Paul strides into the reception room and finds Judy Nicholas
waiting for him. She is thirteen years older than when he
(and we) saw ber last, but remains a very good-looking woman,

i VanOwen seems genuinely delighted to see her:

VANOWEN
(embracing her)
Judy. Nice to see you again.

JUDY
(a little taken back)
You too, Paul.

VANOWEN
Please forgive the delay, It takes a long
time for word to pass from “up here’! to
“down there''--but you know about the security

system,
‘ JUDY
co me I'd almost repressed it. How is everyone?
Ne VANOWEN

Let's go outside. It*s such a nice day.
VanOwen escorts Judy out of the building.
CUT TO:

97 EXT, GRIEF AFB LOCATION DAY

VanOwen and Judy walk along the sidewalk.toward an outdoor
garden and lunch wagon, Uniformed Air Force personel filter
past them as they walk, The planetarium is visible in the distance.

VANOWEN
(continuing)
Otis, Miko and Lou are still here. ike the
poor, they'll always be with us, Tabulis left
a couple years after you did. A couple new
people hive joined us, but, all in all, it's
pretty much the same old family. How are you?

. JUDY
™~ Yo be honest, petting out of the “black hole" was the -
fo: 7 best thing, that ever happened to me, I got marrvied--

had a couple affairs?--y0c divorced and landed a
nice cushy job in research at the U of M,
‘-

C ‘y CONTINUED

98.

VANOWEN
So much for the black hole theory, So what
brings you back? :

JUDY
(serious)
I wouldn't have come back normally. Project
Grief is a closed chapter in my life. But
something is happening I think you ought to
know about.

They sit in the garden,

VANOWEN
Which is?

JUDY
A couple reporters came to my apartment
asking about you, They wanted to know
everything. . Lone

VANOWEN
And you told thei?

JUDY
You know I wouldn't say anything, Paul. But
they said you were in some sort of danger.
That you had gone to your bank and closed your
account...

VANOWEN
Who were they?

JUDY .
They were from the Trib. Claude Ames and a
Leo Ross,

VANOWEN
Thanks. I try to handle it.

JUDY

You don't understand, They're out to blacken
your name, They've got you pegged as a big
wheel in the military-industrial complex, They're
going to twist and turn everything you've done
and make it look Like dirt. How can they do this
to you?

(a beat)
Has something, serious happened, Paul?
99,

CO \ conrime tel)
S2) CONTINUED 44 pore t
: VANOWEN. - 7°"

Well, I have been going around and seeing
some people I haven't seen in a long time.
Straightening, out some legal matters--and
some personal matters, In fact, I was thinking
of paying a visit to you. I'm very glad you

{ came, .

JUDY
That's very kind.

Judy runs her hand across Paul's cheek and across his upper
chest, Her fingers touch something which stops her hand cold.
She feels again, her fingers rubbing across an implanted sensor.

supy — @r*
Something is happening, isn't it Paul?
And it has to do with the Project.

. VANOWEN

‘ I thought that was a closed chapter in
: . your life? :
: € a)

o —/ Judy notices the shaved area on hie right temle. She
brushes aside the hair to reveal several implanted electrodes.

JUDY
What are you doing? What's going on? -

VANOWEN
Judy, you know I can't tell you. You're on
the outside now. .

* JUDY
I can keep a secret,

VANOWEN
But I’can'e tell you.

JUDY
But I spent four ycars in the Project, It
was a very big part of my life. I have to
know if something's happened,

Paul stands and gently takes her by the arm:

oo VANOWEN

' ») Come on, let's have lunch and talk about
other things. Let's enjoy the sunshine.

CUT TO:

 
w.

98

100.

EXT. | _—__—EVANS_‘IDAIIO DAY

The main street of Evans is alive with commotion. Several
large National Guard trucks are rolling down the street and
soldiers line the sidewalks, Everyone seems to be confused.

The UFO curiosity-seckers only add to the confusion. The
town in still experiencing its UFO flap. A banner headline
of the local paper proclains, "Sightings Continue." A large
sign advertises a forthcoming lecture titled, "Do Flying
Saucers Bring Healing?" by "Rev, D&&" Armand Jones.

The trucks come to a halt and the National Guardsmen help
people with suitcases onto the trucks. A group of thé sick -
and the infirm (come to hear the answer to Rev. Dr. Jones'
question) requires special assistance,

All up and down the street citizens and visitors are packing
suitcases and belongings into their cars and driving away.

Bill Higby and a POLICEMAN are answering the questions of
anxious citizens:

. 1ST CITIZEN
Is there any danger?

. HIGBY
Not at the moment. Everyone must be
evacuated by morning. There is no danger
to Evans now, The Army is afraid the winds
might shift south, :

’ 2ND CITIZEN .
It doesn't have anything to do with the flying
saucers does it?

HIGBY
. Nothing at all, mam, a plain ordinary train
( lay ru. overturned nesr Black Mountain. A car of

pressurized fertilizer overturned and the
Amny would Like the area evacuated.

AN ARMY MAJOR walks up to Higby and pulls him aside:

MAJOR
Lieutenant?
HIGBY
Yas, Major. . . ,
. MAJOR

Is everything under control?
GC

98

101.

CONTINUED

HIGBY
I think so, sir. We should have everyone
evacuated by nightfall,

MAJOR
Good work,

The Major turns and walks up the block, Higby, remembering a
question, calls after him:

HIGBY
Major? Major?

Higby starts to follow the Major when he sees him stop and
speak to someone sitting in a black Cadillac Limousine parked
at the curb.

The Major exchanges several comments with the man in the
limousine and continues on.

Walking closer, Higby recognizes the man in the back seat:
Poul VanOwen,

Higby walks up to the limousine and knocks on the window:

HIGBY
VanOwen? Paul VanOwen?

VanOwen buzzes down the automatic window.

VANOWEN
(cold)
Yes?

HIGBY
What are you doing here?

VanOwen is not pleased that Higby has recognized him, but
he can't resist getting back at the man who once ursurped his
job.

VANOWEN
You ask too many questions, Higby. Did I
ever tell you that?

HICBY
But, sir...
>.

102.
CONTINUED
VANOWEN
I'm just following orders. If you had. any
sense, you'd stop gawking and
start doing the same. Get to work.

VanOwen buzzes up the window and motions for the driver to
pull away.

VanOwen's limousine drives away and Higby resumojhis task of

ordering confused pcople around,

100

102

i)

Cut TO:

INT. LIMOUSINE DAY

VanOwen and Hekman sit in the back of the limousine. Paul is
going through a sheath of blueprints. .

Out the window, a line of evacuated cars streams past the
Idaho countryside.

: CUT TO:
EAT. IDAKO DAY

VanOwen's limousine slows down and pulls off on a small dirt
side road, ~ :

Coming out of a clump of trees, the limo pulls up beside
several covered Air Force trucks parked in a clearing.

VanOwen and Hekman get out and walk over to trucks. Otis
Carey and August Kilne walk over and gre@&them with glad
handshakes. There is a sense of anticipation in the air.

CUT TO:
EXT. GRIEF AFB LOCATION AFTERNOON
An exterior shot of the planetarium and the Air Force complex,
It is seen from the pein e oe sain of: Claude Ames and Leo Ross,
who are seated in remodeled Checker across the street,

Aves stares intently at the Air Force base. Ross rests his head
against the back of the seat.

Ames finally tires of his stake-out, and turns the Greeters
ignition, The engine turns over but won't start. Leo Ross

ke

sits up:

 
(™ 102 CONTINUED

Xe - ROSS
I knew there was something wrong when you
said we should take your car.
AMES
What's wrong with this car?
: ROSS
! Nothing, if you want to haul scrap metal.
AMES ,
(struggling with the ignition)
That and a lot else, Let me tell you this
car has carried in its day a deceased human
body, eight shivering lost boy scouts, five
hundred pounds of confiscated explosives, two
Chinese diplomats and a thousand leaflets
. promoting the supremacy of the white race.
. That's what I call an all-purpose vehicle.
' (a beat)
What kind of car do you have?
to . ROSS
co“ ~ A Datsun 12602.
os AMES
What's that? A compact car?
ROSS
A sports car,
Ames finally turns over the engine. He pumps gas into the
sputtering motor and pulls off.
AMES
Big deal.
ROSS
Why are we leaving?
AMES
We ain't going to Find out anything here.
ROSS :
But this is where VanOwen works.
AMES
le Yeah, but it's tighter than a toad's ass. We
7 . could hang around till doomsday and not learn
fre anything.

ROSS :
Bue something's is happening, there,
oan

 

'
'
'

Lo

- . 104.

C 102 CONTINUED

AMES
You'd better believe it. VanOwen visits his
wife, daughter, banker, Makes his Farewell
each time, We visit Judy Nicholas; she visits
VanOwen here. And now I know for sure something's
going on. .

ROSS
How?

AMES
The Editor said the Air Force suggested we
Not waste our time on this story.

. ROSS
What does that mean?

AMES
That means there's a story for sure.

ROSS
Can they kill it?

AMES
Heck no. The Air Force still thinks it's
1958, Thinks they can call the line on any
story they want, It's just the opposite
today. The AF couldn't get a reporter to
believe them if they told him water runs -
downhill,

ROSS
What did they say?

AMES
The usual. VanOwen is supposedly working on
some top secret matters involving “national
security." He's in something alright. And
whatever it is, we'll find out sooner or. later.

ROSS
It'd better be sooner,

ve AMES

dpfimacever's happening, it's happening right now.
I can feel it straighe through my bones, Something
big, is going, down, and it's happening right now--
somewhere,

cur TO;
 

103 EXT.

WD

- Inside one of the trucks we can see rows of bulky
steeb monitoring devices,

IDAHO NIGHT

A large spotlight illuminates a circular area near VanOwen's
limousine and the Air Foree trucks.

whit-e
staintess—

Two workmen stake out a long regtangle. This marks the area
to be excavated.

After the workmen complete stringing the stakes, they call
in a backhoe.

The backhoe begins digging the long trench,

VanOwen and Hekman watch on:

HEKMAN Gs xc wetee
It's too bad about that nerve gas business.
It makes everything more difficult.

VANOWEN
I know. But we had no choice,

. HEKMAN 7
Why did we have all those early sightings.
There were six of them.

VARCVEN
It I knew the answer to thac, Lou, I'd be
fifteen years younger today. I think we
should be thankful there have been any sightings
at all. : .

HEKMAN .
Xsan, Halitosis is better than no breath at
all.

VANOWEN
(smiles)
Yep. Two more days and we'll find out,

HE
(looks at watch)
We've -got to be headed back tu the motel, I'll
pick up my bricfcase first.

Hekman turns and walks back toward a small lighted trailer,
VanOwen's eye follow him,

Camera closes on VanOwen and sexvreon FADES to DARK BLUE,

 
106

106.

INT. GRIEF PLANETARIUM & OBSERVATORY DAY (1971)
A wavy yellow line fistails its way across the blue field.

The image cones into focus to reveal the yellow path of an
oscilloscope reading. Camera pulls back through the Project
Grief planetarium and observatory, A 48-inch telescope rest
on railway tracks which run through the room. The telescope
has been wheeled to the side of the room and the observatory
window closed so that the room.can serve in its secondary
function as a planetarium, .

Paul VanOwen (age 51) and Lou Hekman are slouching in two .
comfortable chairs talking and sipping drinks. A 1971 AF
calender hangs to their rear.

VANOWEN
You want another drink, Lou?
HEKMAN
No.
VANOWEN
What shull we see now?
HEKMAN
(thinks)
Let's take a look at Cassiopeia,
VANOWEN
Okay.

VanOwen flips a switch cutting off the lights and filling the
planetarium with stary dots,

CUT TO:
INT. GRIEF MONTAGE DAY
Life moves at a leisurely piace in the Grief conplex:
--The long CORRIDOR leading to the lab is quict, The long
Ellsworth Kelley painting and a darkened red emergency flasher
watch over the scene.

--Kilne lounges in the GAME ROOM, Carey lethargically shoats
pool with himself,

--The poster outside the SCRERNING ROOM advertises French
Conneet ion, Sounds come from inside the room.
~

NH

107

“

‘

(O

107,

CONTINUED .

SUDDERLY, a honking alarm goes off and the red emergency
light begins flashing in the corsider CORIO OR,

--Kilne and Carey bolt into the corridor and dash toward the
lab.

--Miko and others scramble out of the SCREENING ROOM.
PLANETARY,
--VanOwen and IIckman run out of the pharneterium, Helaan,
barely has time to set down his drink as they head for the
elevator.

CUT TO:

INT, LAB DAY

The bank of monitors in the lab is alive with activity, Something
has entered in Project E,tice artic semi-circle. (The Entice —
monitors have been moved to a less conspicuous part of the lab.)

Kilne and Carey are the first to reach the monitors. They are
soon followed hy Mike and the others,

CAREY
Something is coming into the field!

VanOwen and Hekman, huffing and puffing, arrive last. Every
monitor is registering foreign activity in the Entice field.
There is, as yet, no video image.

HEKMAN

What are the readings?
MIKO

Could it be an animal?
- CAREY

This is no animal! Look at the spectroscope
readings!

KILNE
What is it?
HEKMAN
What's wrong with the video?
CAREY

All the readings are woving in syne now. Look
at them!

MIKO
My God,
o
OQ

108,

° 107 CONTINUED

HEKMAN
This is it,

CAREY
(impatient)
Where's the video?

KILNE
Don't get your hopes up,

VanOwen turns to Kilne.

. VANOWEN .
This is it, Augic. I was right. Project
Entice has worked. Now you're the one
who has to get out,

Excited voices continue in the background as they talk.

KILNE
What do you mean?

VANOWEN
. (forcibly taking Kilne's arm)
Let's go, Augie. You always tried to block
this program.

KILNE
But...

Hl
Here comes the video!

VanOwen and Kilne both stop in their tracks and watch the
monitor. .

Camera closes in on TV MONITOR. The image gradually comesin:
fwo bulky white humanoid shapes stand by the saucer model.

They are looking, up at the camera (mounted be ‘vind the Lighted
history wall). A mechanical contraption can ve seen behind
them,

with erent difficulty. Their shapes

The creatures inch forward \
become clearer, avy Calls ow

CAREY 0.S,
It's eskimos! It's two gaddman eskinos!

HEKMAN 0,5,
Shit,
7

(0

109.
CONTINUED

CAREY 0.S.
Two eskimos and a goddamn snowmobile. What
in the hell are they doing up there anyway?

The staff members turn dejectedly to each other.

HEKMAN
Another false alarm,

Carey opens a log by the monitors. He speaks as.he makes
a notation in it.

CAREY
That makes 52 reindeer, 29 caribou, one
meteorite, two eskimos and a snowmobile.

VanOwen has released his grip on Kilne:

VANOWEN
Dam it.

. CAREY
At least it's more interesting than pool
solitaire,

STAFF MEMBER
I wonder if anybody shut off the projector.

MIKO
(refering to movie)
We'll have to start the chase scene all over
again.

VANOWEN
: (to Kilne)
Sorry, Augie,

KILNE he fe
I didn't know how to tell youg, but my new pulsar
program all but fell through this morning.
4 alse
, VANOWEN

I struck out too. I give up. It's time to
have Entice dismantled.

(gestures to monitors)

They look at each other as the other staff members begin co
file out,

KILNE
What do you say?
cee ee ee te ee ee wee Tene cane ee

. \
» (h07

110,
CONTINUED *
VanOwen smiles and extends his hand:

VANOWEN
I say we serap these programs and start
over again,

Kilne smiles and warmly takes his hand.

KILNE
It's a deal,

VanOwen puts his arm around Kilne and they walk out.

Camera closes on TV HONITOR: the two eskimos finally get fed up
with the history wall, climb into their snowmobile and drive ofz.

CUT TO:

INT. GAME ROOM DAY (1972)

Another cay, another year. Nebman is playing chess with
Carey in the game room, Miko reads a book and. watches TV:
Nixon and HcGovern are campaigning.

VanOwen walks over to Hekman carrying a letter:

VANOWEN
Somebody wants to talk to me, Lou,

HEKMAN
What do you mean?

VANOWEN
A guy named Ruchben Ravanski. Ne says
the space creatures told him to get in touch
with me?

TEKMAN .
Huh?

VANOWEN
Just what I said.

IEKMAN
Now did he know who you were?

VANOWEN :
I don't know. The letter was just addressed:
paul VanOwen, United States Air Foree, Earth,"
lt took about two months to Lind me,
c )

111.

108 CONTINUED

mo
b ie
)

HEKMAN
I wonder how he got your name,

VANOWEN
(checking Letter)
We lives in a place called Bellevue Gardens
in Tampa.
H :
You're not thinking of going, are you?

VANOWEN
Thinking of it, You want to come along?
Tampa! s nice. We can get a.place on the
each,

HEKMAN
Now you're talking.

Hekman finally makes the move he has been studying. .
HERMA Cre Caray
ERMAN,

You know, Otis, we have”played what--maybe
five, six thousand games together?--and I
don't think your chess playing has improved
one iota in all those times.

CAREY .
I'm trying to hustle you,

CUT TO:

109 «~EXT. BELLEVUE GARDENS . DAY

VanOwen's long black limo drives through an upper class
residential section in Tampa.

Paul is at the wheel. Both he and "ekman are wearing brightly tolds-
Hawaiian shirts. <A rolled-up beach towel lies on the scat

between them, ‘they -seem to be having a guood time; they exude

the outpoing air of men on vacation,

VanOwen cheeks the street nimbers as they past. We rechecks
Ravanski's Letter and slows down.

The car stops in £rone of a large institutional building with
sweeping yreen Lawns, ae sipn reads “Bellevue Gardens
Hospital." Mr. Ravanskii Dives at the Cunny Larw,

 
110

112.
CONTIRUED

VanOwen looks at Lou as if to say, "I shouda know," and
pulls into the hospital parking lot.

CUT To:

INT. BEELEVUE GARDENS DAY

A NURSE leads VanOwen and Nekman down the plushly carpeted
hospital corridor. Bellevue is strictly a rich man's
nuthouse :

She opens a door marked "Rueben Ravanski" and ushers them
in.

Ravanski's suite is a wonder to behold: a UFO musuem in
miniature:

The walls are hung with large photo blow-ups of "space crafts"
and "space creatures." The bookshelf is crammed with UFO end

* ET literature; back issues of Flying Saucer Review and The

UFO Inves

 

zator are stacked everywhere. A Large” telescope sits

 

A poisu: vy ae walidow, Flying saucer "“arvifacts" litcer the
room and several hand-made UFO models hang from the ceiling.
RUEBEN RAVANSKI, a small, worn, friendly old man, sits in 2
battered causy chair by the window.
NURSE |
Mr. Ravanski, Mr. VanOwen and Mr, Hekman
are here to see you,
His eyes light up:
RAVANSKI
Wonderful, wonderful, I knew you would come,
Please, please sit down,
VanOven and IHekman find seats amid the clutter, ‘The nurse
excuses herself and exits. She steps out into the hall,
closing, the door softly behind her,
: CUT To:
111 «INT. RAVANSKI'S ROOM DAY
wo Ravanski has already begun his extraordinary tale,
~~
 

 

   

113.
CONTINUED .

Ravanski, like a wind-up doll, becomes animated as he speaks:
his tired legs gain strength, his sagging arms gesture
expansively, his cyes glow like a cat's, Becomming increasing
absorbed in his own story, Ravanski crouches by his old chair.
Soon he is adrift in a world of his own.

Ravanski speaks--with a East European accent--in lush Victorian.
prose. Wis vocabulary, syntax and sensibility are all relics ef
geort an earlicr age, .

(contenuina))

RAVANSK,

As was my custom, I went to a certain downtown
hotel where I always stay and registered. I
tipped the bellboy and stood alone in my simple
room, What reason‘had brought me there I did
not know, What unseen force pulled me so? Suddenly,
coming to a decision, I went downstairs, crossed
the elegant lobby and wandered into the cocktail
lounge. I remembered Miss S--a former student of
mine who must remain nameless--and went into the
phone booth and called her. She was delighted
to hear from me and said she would come over
immediately. She, not owning an automobile, said
it would talc her am hour to arrive by bus, Thon
I knew it was not Miss S I was speaking with at
all. The telepathic message the Venusians had
been trying to send me had finally gotten through.

This was not to be, of course, the first trip
I had made to Venus. My first voyage was in 1956,
but you undoubtably know all about that from my
book, I'll autograph a copy if you like. ©

(gestures to Zeit}

When the car came to pick me up, the driver,
of course, was not Miss S at all, but Rakon, the
Venusian I had met in my earlicr voyage. We rode

cw in his,black 4-door Pontiac—some forty-five minutes
eo through the dark outskirts of town. Coming—scrads, =,
= the desert, I saw it, the "scout ship." Afprceiery
- (gestures Lo photo on the wall)

 

Rakon said that Daru, my Martian friend, had reported
favorably on our meeting. He said they were all
awaiting my next book,

(CON'T)

Lou Hekman has been getting inercasingly Ced-up with this ¢+ne
ef claptrap, Me leans over to VanOwen, who has been listening
tolerantly, and whispers in his ear:

“HEKMAN
(to Van0wen)
I can stand any more of this, I'm poing out
to the car, Meet me there,
114.

\
(Ani conriunn -

 

7"

Hekman excuses himself, stands up and leaves. Ravanski hardly
notices his departure,

RAVANSKI
(con't)

Uranantha was my guide. On our planet
she would be called Rakon's sister, but they
have'no families there. Uranantha looked very
much like an earth woman, except she had silver
eyes and long silver hair, She wore a ski-type brown
pee suit and round her wait was wound a orange

elt, We made love in front of a great bay window
as our ship journeyed the seemingly short distance
to Venus, Meteors drifted eriely y and she told
me all the secrets of life on her planet. Venus
came up rapidly on our right and Uranantha suggested
that we go on to Saturn since I had never been
there. I gladly agreed.

Venus passed quickly by. I could see the
yellow clouds that had so entranced me on my first
visit. Suddenly, we were hit by a shower or
meteorites and the ship shook violently from side
to side, Uranantha grabbed my sleove, Tren aks
said there was another man on my planet--they de
not call it Earth, but Kelos--that I must meet and
she mentioned your name, She said you were a friend
of space people everywhere. Then she sang me the

: song I was to sing to you. It had a light melody but
:no rhyme--Venusian songs do not rhyme. She seng
like this:
(sings in a lilting voice)

Melodically we coursed our way,

From distant star our path was warped,

Everyone danced like leaves in the storm,

They hit a plate and made a song...

VanOwen suddenly becomes absorbed in Ravanski's song. His face
goes pale, his jaw drops, He hears the low piercing SAUCER SuUND.

Before Ravanski can finish his song, VanOyen completes the
lyrics for him, The words come From VanOwen spontancously and
without warning. Ie is alnost as if someone else is speaking
through his mouth,

VANOWEN
+..and made a song,
By music alone sowe-were propelled,
Weary pilgrim, welcome home,

Ravamski is delighted. Me hops on his feet.
112

115,

CONTINUED
RAVANSKI
"Ry music alone some were propelled. Weary
pilgrim, welcome home." She said you would know
the song! She said you would know the words!

VanOwen seems in shock. He stares blankly forward, his
lips trexbling in fear and trepidation.

The saucer sound grows louder and becomes the OUTER SPACE
SOUND.

Ravanski begins tosing to the tune of the outer space sound:
RAVANSKI
By music alone some were propelled, Ka-
fa-roo-pho-Llie-ka-fa-roo-pho-lie-ka-fa-
roo-pho-lie-ka-fa-roo-pho-lie...

A misty view of THE SITE superimposes over VanOwen's pale
face. The orange glow reflects against his cheeks,

We drift though QUTER SPACE, Kavanski's gong merges with
the music of the spheres: the CELESTIAL SOUND,

We pass the planets, the stars and wind our way toward the
TIFID NEBULA. Wempadunceniam .

CUT TO:

INT, BELLEVUE GARDENS DAY

Paul VanOwen, his face still livid, walks mechanically down
the carjoird corridor, The celestial sound fades away.

He looks grotesquely comical in his Hawaiian shirt.

CUT TO:

EXT, BELLEVUE GARDENS DAY
Paul meets Nekman by the side of the limousine.

HEKMAN |
Jhat guy is one of the original looney
tunes, Boy, he is crazy. .
116,
oO

ay CONTINUED

VANOWEN
' Yes. He is crazy, I never realized that
i before, .
{
! 2 HEKMAN
: Huh!
: VANOWEN

I said I never realized that before.
(slaps Hekman on shoulder)
Let's go back,
Paul walks around the car and gets in,

CUT TO:

113 INT. GRIEF KITCHEN DAY

VanOwen and Helman are having a snack in the kitchen.

 

~ Paul studies the half cantalepe and glass of milk in front of

NY him, Several tiae he prepares co cups with a long sharp
knife, then decides against it. = C_ inte the Cuntaloy ©
Finally, he sets the knife down and speaks to Hekman:

VANOWEN :
Lou, I have spent thirteen ycars doing the
wrong thing. Think of that, It's staggering.
Thirteen years running away from what I should
have been running toward.

Remember when years ago Augie used to
talk about the Rosetta Stone? Then we went
through all those projects? Observation and
research, field studies, trying to shoot them
down, the radiowave program, Project Entice.
What a waste of time, All those years I could
not see one simple fact:

I am the Rosetta Stone,

HEKMAN
Come again?

VanOwen turns his cantalope upside down on his plate and runs
his hand over its curved surface,

VANOWEN
Now stupid we were, You cannot “catch! a Q&
."Llying saucer." Extraterrestials are noty' them,"
they are Jus." They ave a higher form of
(CON''T)

3

. ae

 

w~
 

CONTINUED —

o

a

.

He runs his
cantalope,

VanOven picks

117,

VANOWEN
(con't)
intelligence, ‘and one can only communicate
with a higher form of intelligence by likewise
beconningnhigher forms of intelligence.
Extraterrestials are not "out there’...
(gestures broadly)
they are "in here."
(holds his skull)
The ability to communicate with them is part of
our inherent racial memory, We are all Rosetta
Stones. We all contain somewhere within ourselves |
the secret to communication with hiee¢ beings
I am only special because thirteén years
ago this racial memory was thrust into my
vacersetsee~and conscious mind.
(CON'T)

hese

x.

fingers across the brain-like skin of the

VANOWEN
(con't)
Instead sf pursuing this memory, I ran
away from it. I thought it was headaches,
nightmares, hallucinations, craziness. I thought
I could rid myself of the nightmare by capturing
physical evidence.But ic is through craziness I
must go. I must try to recapture that memory which
was put in my mind thirteen years ago.
Is anybody in the Project experienced in
altered and higher states of consciousness? In
hypnosis?

. HEKMAN .
Miko's done a little work in that area,

VANOWEN
We'11 bring in somcbody from the outside if we
have to.

(a beat)
We're going to start a new program, I'm going
back, Lou, I'm going back to the moment thirteen
years ago and find out what happened.

(looks at catalope)

I'm going back inside my wind,

up the long, knife and plunges it into the top of

 

the cacalope, cldiag it open every which way as if ie were his

brain itselL,

a4ithn
aij 'S | CUT ro:
. 118.

INT. - GRIEF MONTAGE SEQUENCE DAY
VanOwen, Hekman, Miko and others prepare for VanOwen's new
program:

#-VanOwen and Nekman play a strip of tape over and over
again, listeining to it closely. VanQwen indicates he wants
a slight change made.

--VanOwen and Miko work out a visual program for the PLANETARIV.
Miko shoots various stellar images on the ceiling and Paul
comments on them,

--VanOwen and a DOCTOR JONES are. sitting in the GAME ROOM. Dr.
Jones has several complex charts depicting various states of
consciousness and he discuss them with Paul.

CUT TO:

115 INT, CORRIDOR DAY

VanOwen and Miko step out of the Game Room and walk toward
the elevator. .
MIKO
Are you ready?
. VANOWEN
‘I hope we have better luck than last time.
MIKO
(joking)

It usually takes a good scientist longer to
figure out what everybody elsc already knows,

CUT TO:

116 INT. PLANETARIUM DAY

Hekman and Dr. Jones are waiting for VanOwen and Miko. Paul
smiles and taps Hekman on the back:

VANOWEN
Ready to go for number two?
HEKMAN
When you are, chief.
VANOWEN

Doctor?
 

119.

CORTIRUED

DR. JONES
Yes.

VANOWEN
Well, let's get started.

VanOwen takes off his shirt and lies on a chaise lounge in
the center of the planetarium,

Dr. Jones prepares a hypdermic needle and gives Paul an injectien
in the arm. .

Jones pulls up a chair beside the chaise and sits down. Miko
lowers the lights.

Hekman flips on the tape recorder containing the PHONETIC LOOP
SOUND: ka-fa-roo-pho-lie-ka-fa... . (Scientific aside: when 2 .
loop of phonetic sounds is played continuously, the listener, ue
after a while, begins to hear new combinations of sounds, yee
"words," One scientist reported when fytplayed the word‘
“eo-gi-tate" in a continuous leop for many listeners, he received:
aver 3,000 differant interpretations ef the sound pattern.
Viienctic loops have been used to induce hypnotic states.)

 
 

 

 

We listen to the phonetic loop until the sounds begin to blur
and form new combinations. :

Miko flips on the planetarium lights. The ceiling is a erie
"night" blue, Small lights move from place to place.

Dr. Jones bends over Paul, speaking softly:

DR, JONES
It is September 19, 1960. You are a Lieutenant
in the United States Air Force, You have been
in Clarenceville, Indiana, making -a sighting
report, You reccive a phone call in your motel
room. ‘The Police Captain asks you to drive to
Clarenceville und visit several suspects. You
get into your station wagon and drive along
the dark country road toward Clarenceville. ‘The
night is black and the road is lonely. There is
an erie feeling in the air...

VanOwen speaks from his hypnotic sleep:
yom

120,

"116 CONTIRUED —

VANOWEN
It's scems warm in here. It's not that warm
out, There's heat on the back of my neck, I
rub my neck, I can fecl the sweat dripping
down my checks, It is warm, Something is
wrong. The engine is overheating. I should
be able to make it into town. Is the car.
slowing down? How can that be? There seems
to be something behind me, I look but there
is nothing there. This is very strange, I'm
losing oil pressure. The car is slowing down.
I'll have to pull over.

(CON'T)

We hear the SAUCER SOUND creeply softly onto the soundtrack.

But this time, instead of cutting to the symbols of memory, the
camera stays on VanOwen's face. As he speaks we intermittently
hearthe OUTER SPACE SOUND, PHONETIC-LOOP and CELESTIAL SOUND, but
we see only his agonized and sweating face. . :

VANOVWEN

(con't) .
Whal ihis? Oh my Ged. It cantt be. This
eanit happen to me, What's that? Are they
speaking to me? Are those words? No, no,

TIMECUT: Dr. Jones is thrusting VanOwen deeper into the memory.

DR. JONES
Go on, Paul. What do you see? What is happening?
Look closer, .

VANOWEN
They're putting something through my body, What
are they doing? I can't stop, Let me go. Where

am I now?

(OUTER SPACE SOUND) :
Oh, here I go. This is wonderful. I'm flying
out past the planets now. I can recognize Venus,
It's much different than they say, I keep going
faster and faster, I can't ‘stop. What's this?
Someone is trying to speak to me? What do you
want to say? Louder, louder. Oh, where am I yoing
now?) I'm far, far away. The Earth is disappearing
like a tiny blue dot. “The Barth is gone now, 1
will never see it again. I'm just another rock in
the stars, Ka-roo-ka-roo, this is so.much fun.

(CELESTIAL SOUND)
What's this?) Where am [ going? No, not there, 1
don't want te go in there, Mother don't make me,
I'm inside now. Where am T?) Te is dark in here.
(CON'Y)
~~

116

117

a
SJ)

118

121,
CONTIRUED

VANOWEN

(con't)
Let me see your faces. Don't stop me now,
Don't! LI must go on! Let me through! Don't
stop me, pleasc, please, please, L've got to
keep going! Let me go!

CUT TO:
INT. GRIEF GAME ROOM DAY

Otis Carcy and Dr. Jones are shooting pool. Miko is
watching television: the Watergate Hearings are in progress.

VanOwen, Hekman and Kilne are sitting in another part of the
room, Paul seems exhausted but placid, He speaks calmly:

VANOWEN
I know where we are going to meet now, I
mean I have seen the place. It is the same
place I've seen for fourteen years. I just
don't know where it is, or.when I'm supposed
to be there. I've got to go deeper,

HEKMAN
How can we?

VANOWEN
We'll just keep at it. Push. Expand, Try
new techniques. I'm being blocked, but I know
it's there. It's only a matter of ‘time,
(a beat)

I know one thing,, Lou, before I can have the
rendezvous I'm going to have to go back and
straighten out things with people in my life.
My wife, my daughter, I've done a lotta crap
in my life, and it keeps getting in the way.

VanOwon seats his foot resolutely against the carpet.
Screen FADES to WHITE,

CUT gio
EXY. IDAIIO DAY (1975) Sit

A reyular pattern of six color dots appears on the white
leld,

Sereen comes inta focus and we see the control panel of a
Large reetangyulie white monitoring device.

 

oe
 

122.

CONTINUED

Camera pulls back to reveal Carey and another technician
testing the machine in the back of one of the trucks near
the Idaho site.

A little ways away, the earth-moving crews have finished
constructing the long 6 foot deep trench. VanQwen and Kilne
look with approval at the work. :

VanOwen lifts up his eyes and gazes across the long knoll
before him. We realize then that the Idaho site is THE
SITE, the mysterious mist-cnshrouded image that haunted
VanOwen for so many years.

di

The mist has now been replaced by sunshine Bt ne site still

seems wrapped in an outher-worldly aura--or perhaps it is ;
just the realization that so many years, so much money and Sz made
effort and anguish have gone into the search for this place.

The familiar orangisli glow which hovered on the horizon in

previous views of the site is now gone.

The WORKMEN start wheeling the electronic machinery down a
ramp into th Cloths are draped across ths dirt walls
is clucsed through: the trench. :

 

 

Its purpose becomes clear: men will be able to sit underground
and study the monitors. . :

Kilne and VanOwen turn and walk back toward the trucks. As they
go they walk along a narrow ditch where worken are laying the
heavy power cables which lead to the large trench.

» KILNE
I just want to say again that I didn't approve
of this.

(he gestures to his chest and head,
indicating where VanCwen has had the
sensors implanted)

I didn't see any need for you to go through
that. But then it wasn't my decision. Or
my body.

VANOWEN .
I thought it was the least I could da. Dozens
of people have spent years on this Prajecc,
The povermuent has spent millions, If something
were to happen to me, if I were unable to report

back, al) the information we have striven ge . ha
Jeng, for would be lost, IT have to inaure, there —————
‘is a thorough seientifie record Lefe behind should

something happen to me,
mS

..

123,

118 CONTIRUED ©

119

place,

KILNE
What possibly could happen?

VANOWEN
(offhand)
Oh, just about anything I guess.
(changing the subject)
Is everything on schedule here?

KILNE
Ahead of schedule. We'll be finished by
tomorrow morning. Police up the area in
the afternoon. Everything's quiet in Evans.
The town's deserted, Just a few National

Guardsmen.
VANOWEN
Lou are I are flymg back now for the final
preparations,
KILNE
I'll see you tomorrow then.
VANUWEN
Yeah,
They shake hands. .
CUT To:
INT. GRIEF LABORATORY “DAY

A long TRACKING SHOT down the CORRIDOR into the lab: this
is the Final preparation scene.

The door to the lab is open and we can see Paul standing in
the distance, :

Paul stands upright. We wears only tight blue jockey shorts.

As we draw closer we can that his naked body is a maze of
implanted wires and sensors, Wires run up his legs and along
his aru, Sensors are imbedded in his chest, his legs and
skull. ‘

Lou Nekman is piving each electrode a quick charge of electricicy
wie a long thin prode, Vandwén's body twitches which cach
jolt.

After this is completed, Uekman dreases VanOwen in oa skto-tighe
uy ety t
Breen vubber suit. AZbervard, ant combs Paul's hady back inte
req

 
~N
~-119

120

124,
CONTINUED

This completed, Helanan takes VanOwen's three-piece grey
pin-striped suit off a rack and helps Paul into it,

Lou buttons up the vest tiers and straightens the red-and-black
striped tie. A Gentleman's Gentleman could do no better.

VanOwen is ready.

CUT TO:

EXT. WRIGHT-PATTERSON DAY

Claude's Ames all-purpose Checker pulls into the parking
lot at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base,

He and Leo Ross get out and walk toward the administration
building.

cuT To:

INT. WRIGHT-PATTIORSON DAY
Ames and Ross are sitting in LT. BILL HIGBY'S OFFICE.

Higby swivels in his high-backed desk chair. The decor of his
office is depressingly institutional.

AMES
We came to you because you used to work with
Paul VanOwen. We're interested in anything
you might know or remenber,

HIGBY
(to Ross)
You were the fellow I just met, in Evans,
right?
ROSS

Yeah, before they had that nerve gas train
wreck, I wish I had stuck around to cover
thac story, More interesting than the
sightings.

NIGBY
Well, of course I emt tell you anything about
Paul Vandwe even if 1 knew anything, That's
all Top Seeree government information,

 

 

ecouldn'¢ find out mysel£ if 1 wanted to know. -
which I don't,

(CON''T)

 
a + , 125.
my)
121 CONTINUED

HIGRY

Ceon't) :
But it's funny you should mention VanOwen,
I just saw him a couple days ago. For the
first time in five years.

Where? AMES

HIGBY
That's what was funny, He was in Evans, of
all places,

AMES
: VanOwen was in Evans?
. HIGBY
Yeah, he was there when they were evacuating
the town. :
Li » Ames takes Ross by the arm and pulls him to his feet.
, AMES
(to Higby)
’ I'm sorry, Lieutenant. Excuse us just a
moment,

Ames takes Ross OUTSIDE HIGBY'S OFFICE.

ROSS
What's up? .

AMES
Let's go.

ROSS

To Evans, I don't know what's happening
but whatever it is, it's happening there,
And it's happening now. It all fits, Let's
get over to the airport,

AMES
What about him?
(refering to Higby)

H1IGBY :
That twirp will be waiting if we don't come

oO
_—,
oo \ back for a week,
122

123

. 126,

CONTINUED”
Ames and Ross walk out of the offices.

CUT TO:

EXT, IDANO SITE LATE ‘AFTERNOON
The dying rays of sun fall across THE SITE.

There is no activity to be seen anywhere. The trucks are
gone, the trailer pulled away, The cable ditch and large
equipment trench have been covered over by new sod, All

appears virgin--and ready,

CUT TO:

INT, TRENCH LATE AFTERNOON

Soft multi-colored lights glow along the long row of white
machinery. :

Carcy, Mine and Kilne ave seated at various positions in front
of the machinery.

All the monitors are alive and activated; they record every
impulse sent out from the sensors in VanOwen's body. One
bank of dials records chemical compositions, another all forms
of radio waves, Still another monitors all of VanOwen's life
functions: his heart beat, blood sugar, temperature, brain
waves and so forth, All at the moment are normal, “

VanOwen and Hekman stand at the end of the trench, For the
first time in all his preparations, Paul seems apprehensive
and anxious,

Hekman seems equally unsettled, He hardly knows how to part
with the mm he has served for so many years,

Paul looks at his watch and turns to say something to Hekman,
He moves his mouth but nothing quite comes out.

MEKMAN
Maybe it won't come off, Paul, Maybe it'll
be just another disappointment.

VanOwen looks at’ Lou as if to say, “We both know better,"
HEKMAN
You donte have to go. Nobody will blame you
af you don't?
~ 127.

123. CONTINUED

VANOWEN

I'm ready to go, Lou. I don't know what's

going to happen: All I know is that I'm

supposcd to be in this place at this time.

I may die immediately. I may end up a ginea

pig on an operating table, I may become a

specimen in a foreign zoo. Whatever happens,

I'm ready,

(a beat)

Look, Lou, there's something I haven't told

told anybody because I didn't know how they

would reuct. When I had my final session,

when I knew that this was the time and place

I had to be, when I knew that the communication

I sought would occur here, I also new I would

never come back. I can't say how or why it

came to me--maybe I am crazy--but this is the

thing my whole life has aimed for and it is
_, the end. I hope they take me away someplace
else, I'm ready for another world.

ee

LS
Se

obtis Carey locks up from the monitors and calls out:

CAREY
The sun's down, Paul. Everything's ready.

‘ VANOWEN
(to Hekman)
Then I guess it's goodbye,

lickman is hesitant, but there is something he too has to say:

HEKMAN
Paul, there's something I've wanted to say
too. .
Cemotional) \

Paul, you've heen like a father to me all
these years., I love you and I'm going to miss
you, hase

 

ANOWEN
(his voice breaking)
Me too, Lou.

i ‘they embrace and Paul steps over to August Kilne,.

o \ KILNE

It's been a long road, Paul,
LA

123

124

 

126

128.
CONTINUED

VANOWEN
Yeah, it has, Aen
They embrace and Paul moves down the line to Miko and Carey.
VanOwen says goodbye and warmly embraces each of them in
turn. .

Then, without looking back, he turns toward the stairway leading
to the surface. His shakey legs climb the steps,

CUT TO:

EXT. IDAIO SITE DUSK
VanOwen stands alone on the barren stretch of ground,
Slowly he turns and heads up the knoll.

, CUT TO:

INT. TRENCH DUSK

Helwan joins the others at their places in front of the
monitors.

All the monitors are activated, Carey watches the dials
monitoring VanOwen's vital functidns. VanOwen's heart is
beating rapidly.

we hear below ground is the silence of anticipation and
the clicking of dials.

CuT TO:

EXT. IDANO SITE DUSK

The clicking of the monitors fades as VanOwen turns and
proceeds up the knoll,

There is only silenee, then, almost imperceptibly, we begin
to hear it: the inereased volume of clicking, from underground
and the distant strains o£ the SAUCER SOUND,

An oranye plow comes up Erom beneath the knoll and hovers
on the horizen, The site now duplicates the view of it
we saw in the pre-eredits, and that Paul first saw in his
encounter on the road to Clarenceville,

  

The orange glow reLleces ayainse his cheeks,

 
128

129

129,
CONTINUED
The saucer sound increases,

Then we see it: a NUGE RED SUN rises from beneath the horizon.
The saucer is rising from below the knoll.

VanOwen pauses, then walks slowly toward the red semi-circle.
He stops and raises his hand in the universal sign of grecting.

There, is a pause$, then, slowly, the saucer begins to rise.
A thg row of blue lights appears below the red semi-circle. -
What we had previously seen was only the dome of a much large
ship.

It continucs to rise. Finally, its entire structure appears
above the knoll, It is huge. Its base, hundreds of yards
across, stretches from one end of the screen to the other,

VanOwen walks toward it.
CUT TO:

INT. ‘ TRENCH DUSK

The camera pans across the monitors: all the meters are alive
and registering.

VanOwen's life functions remain stable.

CUT TO:

EXT. IDAHO SITE DUSK

VanOwen approaches the saucer, His hand is raised in greeting.
We hear the ORGAN SOUND. ‘

A door in the saucer appears to open, Paul walks in.

CUT TO:

Int. SAUCER ETERNITY
VanOwen is inside the saucer.

Ne receives

in vapid succession, all the sensations he had
in his Ci

st encounter, in his nightmares, in his hypnotic

    

worlds of knowlcdje and awareness,

\ trance, but then he yous beyond them, exploring entirely new

\ Ite een Ag ings ‘Then she pes and forms die une lets,
\ \
 

 

130,

CONT LNUED

VanOwen receives, now in seconds, his in-depth X-ray. The
ray cuts innediately through his skin, blood, nerves and
bones, leaving only the pale glow of his soul,

The saucer sound dissolves into the OUTER SPACE SOUND. He’
hears worlds collide and he zooms through OUTER SPACE.

Planets, stars, nebulae pass him by in a flash. The music
collasces into the CELESTIAL SOUND. Amid the music of the
spheres, we hear the musical PHONETIC LOOP SOUND. Somewhere
in the distance Uranantha is singing about weary pilgrims
propelled by music alone,

VanOwen moves inevitably, rapidly, toward the TIFID NEBULA.
We plunge in and are welcomed by the darkness.

In the darkness we hear the haunting phonetic loop sound,
Then faces appear. They are moving very fast now, They
twist, distort, dissolve and blitz past us. We recognize
a few as they pass: VenOwen's mother, Sharon, Becky, Judy
Nicholas, Jack Estes, Ed Tupelo, Rueben Ravanski. We speed
past the furbidding land which ouce held VanOwen back,

Paul has new plunged past the memory and the dream, He is
exploring new worlds achieving new knowledge, receiving
sensations never before experienced by. man,

HOWS Ly,
The Doors ofPerce’ tod swing wode open: through his natural
senses andyevery electrode planted in his body, VanOwen is
receiving emotional, physical, intellectual and spiritual.
information. The knowledge his mother once speke- of draws

near, Ay caine ¢

The faces kecp spinning and dissolving. Then we realize
the faces are not random, but regressive. Each face is the
parent of the one preceeding it. ‘The son yields to the father
yields to the grandfather. Gencrations flow past in flectiny,
seconds, .

We recognize momentarily an ancient Roman or Near Eastern face.
Suddenly, the mirror before of our eyes presents a Cro-Magnon
visage, then a Neanderchal, then an Eolithic man--then the
fierce face of a sabuer-loothed tiger. Yet, ina £lash, we ge
furthey back wesse: through reptiles, fish, plants and finally
to the apmiagmolecule icsel£, 7x fas-motien pan back across
VanOwen's artic history wall, /

  

 
   

“T+

*
's like a
a;

130

131

132

131.
CONTINUED

Then the earth is void and without forma. <A darkness moves
upon the face of the deep.

 

We pull rapidly back from the stark and desolate planet, STSaZcc mire
quickly into the reaches of space, A rock becomes a boulder 7
becomes a mountain because a ridge becomes a continent becomes

a planet and then, with a faint blue glow, slowly vanishes

from view. .

We are back at the beginning of time: the universe is in the
throes of creation. :

A supernova explodes; light fills the sercen, Hot molten
planets spew randomly from the star, casting themselves every.
which direction through space,

The planets cool, coalesce and fall into orbit. Each planet,
each moon, each star has a brilliance color of its own. The
universe is ablaze with red, yellows, greens and violets.

The celestial sound, backed by choruses of disembodied voices,
fills the air.

Is this what men dream of when they die? Is this the knowledge
we pursue? Is this the heaven we seek?

CUT TO:

EXT. IDAHO SITE . DUSK
The saucer slowly rises.

CUT TO:

INT. TRENCH DUSK

The monitor indicates that VanOwen's bodily vital functions--
heart beat, temperature, blood sugar, etc.--have falled to
the threshold of existence, yet his brain waves continue to
throb wildly.

Carcy's voice calls out: ‘

CAREY O.S.
Ne's still alive,

Screen FADES te BLACK. CUT To:
132.
“1330 EXT. ’ EVANS, IDAIO DAY
A day later, Groups of local citizens are filtering back
into the deserted town, The evacuation has been lifted.
The National Guard is assisting where possible.
Claude Ames and Leo Ross look disconsolately down the street,
CUT To:

134 EXT. IDAHO SITE DAY
Ames and Ross walk from their car toward the site area.

The last workmen are smoothing dirt over what once was the
trench. Ames approaches one of them:

AMES
What are you doing?

The workman shrugs.

“y ROSS
! What happened here?

The workmen shrug and continue with their work, They're just
doing a job. ‘

Ames turns his head and looks up at the skies.
CUT TO:

135 EXT, ENDLESS SPACE ETERNITY

A distant light males its way through the stary skies. The
celestial sound plays softly.

Weary pilgrim, welcome home,

TUR END

“ie.
