

The Dinkum Bloke


The Dinkum Bloke
1
Fade into a big scene of wharf laborers hard at toil 
plainly showing the arduous nature of the work by which the 
wharfies earn their living wage. Among them is one big- 
hearted, honest, illiterate man loved by all.

	BILL GARVAN.
	A Wharf Laborer, whose head has not been 
	filled with the learning of schools, but 
	whose heart has passed with honors in the 
	University of Life.

2
Close up of Bill Garvan working.

3
Close up of clock striking 5.

	The day's toil comes to an end at last, 
	and all the greatest interests of humanity 
	begin.

4
The men knocking off work and hurrying away.

	Bill's home in Woolloomooloo - not quite 
	a palace in appearance but containing 
	jewels more precious than ever shone in 
	any crown.

5
Exterior of Bill's home and Interior.

	MRS. GARVAN.
	A wife who is a comrade too! Jim's delight 
	in prosperity, and his solace when the 
	world frowns.

6
Interior home. Mrs. Garvin is here shown in a close up, 
then long shot where she is seen dressing her little girl.

	PEGGY.
	A young lady who hasn't been long on this 
	earth, but whose cleverness already seems 
	perfectly uncanny to her adoring parents.

7
Close up Peggy a sweet little maid of three. Mrs. Garvin 
glances at the clock and says: 

	Daddy will soon be home. He must see his 
	little girl nice and clean.

Now Peggy is ready and they both leave the scene.

8
Exterior gate. Mrs. Garvin and Peggy coming out of house to 
wait at gate for Daddy.

9
Crest Corner. Presently Bill is seen coming round the 
corner - Peggy runs like mad to meet him. He lifts her in 
his arms and kisses and fondles her and then walks on to 
the gate and lovingly greets his wife. They proceed indoors 
where the tea is waiting.

10
They are all at the table. Mrs. Garvin is shown pouring the 
tea out of a broken spout, and all of them are laughing.

	When happiness sits at the table, what 
	does a broken tea pot matter?

Peggy is chattering away asking her Daddy about Xmas Eve 
which is only a week off. She is a great believer in Daddy 
Xmas and she is longing to see him, she says.

	If I keep awake all the time, will I 
	really see Daddy Xmas?

And Bill promises her she will, for her every wish is 
gratified.

	A week later - Xmas Eve - Bill carries 
	out his plan so as Peggy really will see 
	Daddy Xmas.

[10a]
Interior Bill's bedroom. Bill is seen dressing himself as 
Father Xmas. His wife is helping him and puts the whiskers 
on his face and a bag of toys on his back. He is then ready 
and leaves the room.

11
Bill sneaks round to the window of Peggy's room and climbs 
in through the window.

12
Interior Peggy's room. Peggy is awake and is waiting for 
the magic visitor, she sees him - she looks in amazement, 
then, rather afraid, she covers her curly head with the 
sheet but soon peeps out again. Close up Mother watching 
through door. Father Xmas fills up her pillow slip at the 
end of the bed with all the toys she had been wishing for 
and makes his exit. Childlike, she just makes sure he has 
really gone and then, excitedly gathering up the toys, she 
rushes out of the room.

13
Living Room. Peggy rushes into the room to convey the glad 
tidings.

	Oh Mummy, Oh Daddy, I've really seen 
	Father Xmas, see what he has left me.

Bill enters from the adjoining bedroom. In his haste to 
resume mortal shape, he has forgotten to take the whiskers 
off. His wife warns him and he snatches them off and crams 
them in his pocket. Among Father Xmas' gifts is a book 
entitled "The Prince and the Beggar Maid" - Peggy eagerly 
thrusts it into her father's hands and says

	"Read it to me now, Daddy."

He takes her on his knee and reads the fairy tale to her.

	Once upon a time as a Prince went riding 
	through a great forest on a big white 
	horse, he met a woodcutter's daughter 
	gathering sticks. She was so beautiful
	although her clothes were ragged and her 
	feet were bare, that the Prince fell in 
	love with her at once.

	Leaping from his horse, he took off his 
	plumed hat and bowing gracefully to her 
	said "Let me put my bundle of sticks on 
	the back of my horse - he will be delighted 
	to carry them for you."

	"You are very kind" said the woodchopper's 
	daughter. So he took the bundle of sticks 
	and placed it on the back of the big white 
	horse and together the Prince and the 
	beautiful maid walked side by side through 
	the forest till they came to the hut where 
	her parents lived.

	The Woodchopper and his wife were 
	overwhelmed by the magnificence of their 
	visitor but the Prince soon put them at 
	their ease with his gracious manner.

	"I love your daughter" he told them "and
	you must come with her to the Court of 
	the King my father and the Queen my mother 
	and I will ask their blessing upon our 
	Marriage." 

	The Prince departed a little while after 
	and in a few days sent a guard of honor 
	to escort the maid and her parents to the 
	palace.

	But when the King and Queen heard she was 
	only a woodcutter's daughter, they forbade 
	the Prince to marry her. The poor girl 
	wept bitterly at learning this, and as for 
	the Prince, he declared he would rather 
	renounce the throne than give her up.

	The woodcutter himself however stood 
	forward and said:-

	"Your Majesties, this dear child is not 
	our daughter. We found her wandering in 
	the forest when she was little more than 
	an infant and took her into our home and 
	brought her up as our own for we knew not 
	to whom she belonged. Perhaps the clothes 
	she wore will tell your Majesties whom she 
	is. We have them with us."

	At her husband's words, the woodcutter's 
	wife opened a parcel she carried and 
	spread out before the throne the loveliest 
	dress and hat and shoes you ever saw. 
	There was a crest embroidered on the dress 
	and as soon as they beheld this the King 
	and Queen knew that the woodcutter's 
	daughter was really the daughter of a 
	neighboring King from whose garden she 
	had strayed away and been lost in the 
	forest fifteen years before. So all was 
	well and the Prince and the maid were
	married amidst the rejoicings of two 
	kingdoms and lived happily ever after.

Just as the story reaches its highly satisfactory conclusion, 
Peggy falls asleep and is carried off to bed.

Fade out.

	Three months go by and then Fate mars the 
	brightness of the scene.

14
A street in Sydney. Bill Garvin meets with an accident 
coming home from work; a crowd collects around. It is found 
Bill's leg is broken. An ambulance is summoned and Bill's 
one thought is his wife. He says to his mate:

	Go and tell the missus will yer? - but 
	break it to 'er gently, mate.

He promises he will. Bill is then taken to the hospital.

15
Exterior Bill's Home. Mrs. Garvin and Peggy as usual all 
clean and tidy waiting at the gate to meet daddy. Bill's 
mate comes along and very nervously and gently as he can 
breaks the news of the accident. The shock his words have 
on Mrs. Garvin is plainly seen - her one thought is to 
hasten to him and she rushes inside with Peggy to get ready.

	The Casualty Ward at Sydney Hospital.

16
Casualty Ward. Close up Bill in bed in great pain. Mrs.
Garvin and Peggy come into the scene hurriedly. The sight 
of her dear Bill lying there is too much for her - she 
cries bitterly. Bill takes her hand and with a very worried 
look says:

	How ever will you manage, dear, till I am 
	well again?

She answers bravely:

	Don't worry, Bill - I am strong and can
	easily earn enough for Peggy and me.

A little while later the nurse tells them they must go - it 
was a sad goodbye for them all.

	A few days later.

17
Kitchen at Garvin's home. Mrs. garvin is bustling about her 
work and Peggy is absorbed in "The Prince and the Beggar 
Maid" when the Postman brings a letter - It reads:

	Mrs. Garvin,

	This is to inform you that your 
	application for the position advertised to 
	wash and iron at the wage of 10/- per day 
	is approved of, and to ask you to be good 
	enough to commence your duties tomorrow 
	morning at eight.

		(Mrs) Edyth Enright Smyth

Mrs. Garvin thoughtfully puts the letter on the mantlepiece 
and with a serious face resumes her work -

Fade out.

	While her mother washed the dirty linen 
	of the Enright Smythes, Peggy is placed 
	in a Kindergarten School.

18
Kindergarten School. Here show close up of Peggy and also 
all items of interest in connection with the Kindergarten 
System.

19
The mansion "Corona" - Pott's Point where Mrs. Garvin is
washing. Close up of her at work. She looks out of the 
window and sees:

20
Lovely lawn and garden scene, where a nurse with two little 
girls about the same age as Peggy but dressed very 
beautifully are playing.

21
laundry same as Scene 19. Mrs. Garvin watches them with 
envious eyes and she mentally compares them with her own 
little child and a great longing comes to her heart and she 
murmurs:

	If I could only bring up my Peggy like 
	them.

She watches them with a dreamy expression as they play on 
the lawn -
Fade out.

	In due course, Bill recovers and returns 
	home.

22
Interior Garvins. Bill returning home with his wife and 
child who want to meet him. They are all delighted. The wife 
takes off her hat - immediately starts to make the invalid 
some tea, etc. Bill says:

	Thank heaven you won't have to go out to 
	work any more.

For a moment she hesitates and says:

	Don't ask me to give it up, Bill.

He looks surprised and asks:

	Why, what do you mean?

She replies:

	I want to save the money I earn to educate 
	Peggy and make a lady of her.

Bill puts his arm around her and tenderly says:

	If she grows up as much a lady as her 
	mother, some bloke will be a happy man.

She appreciates his words and says:

	It is nice to hear you say that, Bill, 
	but ain't it better to be a lady in a 
	drawing room than a lady in a kitchen, 
	with soft white hands instead of hands 
	like these?

She holds out her hands. Bill takes them in his and kisses 
them. Here Peggy speaks up and settles the matter by 
declaring:

	I don't want to be a washerwoman, daddy. 
	I want to be a lady woman.

Mrs. Garvin seizes the opportunity this presents and urges 
her point.

	Say that you'll agree, Bill.

He looks at her with swimming eyes and just nods consent -

Fade out.

	A year of happiness follows, then again 
	the clouds of misfortune gather over the 
	little home in Woolloomooloo and the 
	lightnings of fate strike ruthlessly.

NOTE. In this title, a storm is shown with a vivid flash of 
lightning.

23
Exterior Garvin's home. Bill returning from work - no one 
to meet him this time.

24
Interior. Bill enters room, he finds his wife lying down in 
a State of collapse. Peggy is preparing the meal. The wife 
says:

	Oh, Bill, I'm so sick.

Bill is distracted, he rushes out, and presently returns 
with a doctor who, after an examination, turns and says to 
Bill:

	A bad case of Appendicitis. She must go to 
	the hospital at once.

The doctor takes his departure. Bill sinks helplessly into 
the nearest chair, the wife tells him not to worry, she'll 
soon be quite alright and home again. It passes through 
Bill's mind how wonderful she was - she always looked on 
the bright side in the very depth of trouble and tried to 
cheer him.

Peggy is at the stove trying to cook a pan of sausages for 
tea. Her mother had directed her what to do but since the 
Doctor's arrival she had been forgotten so was just doing 
it her own way. 

Comedy is in where she tries to turn them over and drop 
them and the dog springs up on them and runs out with a 
string of sausages dragging after him. Peggy screams and 
chases him with the pan. Just at this moment, the Ambulance 
arrives and Mrs. Garvin is taken away, leaving behind the 
grief stricken father clasping the child.

	The following day.

25
Exterior Sydney Hospital - fade to interior where Bill and 
Peggy are anxiously awaiting the result of the operation. A 
nurse comes to them and says gently:

	Your wife is very ill - you may see her.

They follow her.

26
Ward in Hospital. The nurse leads them to the bedside of 
Mrs. Garvin - she looks at them and murmurs:

	I'm dying, Bill.

He kneels at her bedside and sobs at her words - she strokes 
his hair. Her words come slowly.

	We have been very happy, Bill - But this 
	is not the end - I'll wait for you where 
	I'm goin', Bill.

Bill cannot endure it - he puts his arm around her as if to 
hold her back, saying wildly:

	Darling, you shall not leave us. We cannot 
	do without you, Peggy and I -

He is overcome with grief. The little girl clings to him and 
starts to cry.

The dying woman shakes her head and says:

	You must be both father and mother to her 
	now.

Then, after a short interval during which she seems to 
almost lose consciousness, she recovers momentarily and 
says:

	Promise me, Bill - you - will have her 
	brought - up - to be a - lady.

Bill looks her straight in the eyes and says with his whole 
heart:

	I will give my life to do what you want - 
	Peggy shall be a lady.

A smile steals over her face and then she lies quite still 
and calm. Bill realises that she is dead - the nurse gently 
leads the grief stricken man and child away - 

Fade out.

	However great the sorrows of the poor, 
	necessity extracts from them a tribute 
	of daily toil.

27
The wharf Pymont. Bill is seen at work on the wharf. He is 
very dejected and does not speak to the other men. Two 
labourers nearby are talking, one points to Bill and says:

	'E ain't got over the loss of 'is missus 
	yet.

The other man looks at Bill and shrugs his shoulders and
replies:

	Blime - mine don't gimme a chance to get 
	over the loss of 'er.

His mate laughs and they go on with their work -

Fade out.

	Bill decides that the time has come to 
	carry out the wish of Peggy's mother and 
	send Peggy to College.

28
Interior Garvin's house. Bill is seen sitting almost in 
darkness, plunged in profound thought. Presently, he rises, 
lights a candle and goes into:

29
Peggy's bedroom. Bill enters and goes over to the little cot 
where Peggy is sleeping. He gazes down fondly yet sadly and 
strokes her curly hair then murmurs to himself:

	How I'm goin' ter part with yer, little 
	pal, I don't know.

A lump rises in his throat - he turns away and slowly leaves 
the room.

	A week later, Peggy is placed at Rose Bay 
	Convent in charge of the Good Sisters of 
	Mercy.

30
Exterior of Rose Bay Convent. The nuns are seen walking in 
the beautiful grounds and their girl pupils playing about.

31
Close up of Bill concluding his arrangements with the 
Mother Superior, she takes the little girl kindly by the 
hand and says:

	Your little daughter will be taken the 
	greatest care of, Mr. Garvin.

Bill snatches the child to him passionately for a moment,
then puts her down and leaves. Peggy cries pitifully, the
Mother Superior tries to comfort her.

32
Road outside the Convent. Bill walks along scarcely knowing 
where he is going. Once, he stops and looks back. In the 
distance rises the spires and gables of the Convent, with a 
sigh he turns again and resumes his aimless way. Presently, 
he finds himself at the Gap, a spot made famous by many who 
had ended their earthly cares by throwing themselves over.

	There are scenes in nature that are grand 
	and beautiful yet over which a tragic 
	suggestion broods forever and the winds 
	have the sound of the beating of death.

As the title dissolves, the grim "Gap" is seen, with the 
figure of Death dimly suggested hovering in the clouds. 
Bill is seen at the top looking down, overpowered by the 
loneliness that has come into his life - he mutters:

	If ever a bloke felt like chuckin' 
	himself over, I do.

A vision of his dying wife rises up before him with himself 
and Peggy by her bedside, she is saying "you must be both 
father and mother to her now" - He stretches out his arms 
to the vision and, pulling himself together, he retraces 
his steps and so life goes on and the scene fades out.

	Bill had sold off his little home and was 
	now living in a cheap room in the vicinity.

33
Exterior common boarding house in Woolloomooloo with notice 
in window. This is where Bill now lives - fade into Interior 
of his room. He is looking worried and puzzled, has a bill 
from the Convent in his hand. He says:

	The makings of a lady costs money. How am 
	I going to pay for it?

He walks restlessly about and says:

	Looks as if a wharf labourer can't afford 
	a lady in the family.

Coming near the window he pauses for a instant and gazes out 
and his attention is drawn to:

34
Street Corner. A strolling musician with a violin is playing 
at the street corner. People are throwing coins into his hat.

35
Same as 33. Bill from his window sees this. An idea flashes 
into his brain:

	Well, that's not a bad lurk: they tell me 
	I can sing, why not go in partners with 
	this bloke?

He gets his hat and leaves the room.

36
Same as Scene 34. Bill comes up to the violin player and 
starts talking to him. He seems to like the idea of a 
singing partner. Bill invites him along to his room.

37
Interior Room. Both enter - Bill is quite excited. Soon they 
are seen trying out a song. Screen words and music.

	She thought her father was a cove with 
		thousands in the bank,
	A leader on the Stock Exchange
		or else a man of rank.
	She pictured 'im a 'owling toff!
	'E never let 'er know
	'E was an organ grinder
	In the streets of O-hi-o

The fiddler is delighted. He shakes Bill warmly by the hand 
and exclaims enthusiastically:

 	It sounds like a bloomin' Opera Company.

They then and there form a partnership - 

Fade out.

	So the next night after his hard day's 
	work, Bill makes his first appearance on 
	the Street Corner.

38
Street Corner. Night effect - Bill and his partner singing 
on the Street Corner, quite a big crowd round and, at the 
end, a liberal collection results -

Fade out.

	Ten years pass.

	PEGGY
	Aged seventeen and rapidly growing up to 
	be a lady on the proceeds of the Opera 
	Company.

39
Close up of Peggy, a very pretty girl playing Tennis with 
the other girls, all at once sees her father in the 
distance for it is visiting day at the Convent. She waves 
and rushes over to meet him - greets him lovingly and then 
arm in arm they walk away.

40
A shady seat underneath an old gum tree. Peggy and her 
father walk into the scene and sit down and talk. She tells 
him all her little bits of news and then says:

	I am so happy here, daddy. But how 
	expensive it must be for you!

He answers:

	Yes, it costs me a good few - er - notes.

She continues:

	You have never told me yet what your 
	position is.

Bill is silent for a little while. Vision of himself 
singing:

	She thought her father was a cove with 
		thousands in the bank,
	A leader on the Stock Exchange
		or else a man of rank.

He smiles and says:

	I operate on the Stock Exchange.

Peggy is delighted and asks:

	And are you very successful, daddy?

	Oh, yes, I make quite a hat full of 
	money at times.

She puts her arm around his neck and says thankfully:

	How glad I am we are rich. It must be 
	dreadful to be poor.

Peggy's friend Diana Gilchrist approaches them and says:

	Oh, Mr. Garvin, I want you to let Peggy 
	spend her Holidays with us on our Station 
	in Queensland. You will, won't you?

Peggy pleads that he will let her go as she is longing to do 
so. Bill answers that he is only too pleased for her to go. 
Both girls thank him and soon after he bids Peggy a fond 
goodbye and takes his departure.

	Three weeks later.

41
Interior Bill's room. He is seen reading a letter from Peggy. 
This letter is screened and visioned in.

	Dear Daddy,
	We arrived here last Tuesday at four 
	o'clock (vision in). A car met us at the 
	Station and drove us home (vision in). Oh, 
	such a glorious place (vision in). 

	Diana's mother and father gave us a 
	splendid welcome (vision in). And then I 
	was introduced to her brother Geoffrey and 
	such a lovely boy with the most glorious 
	dreamy eyes and black curly hair (vision 
	in).

	The next morning I was shown over the 
	Station - hundreds of horses and sheep. 
	Oh, it is wonderful to see (vision in) - 
	together they have about twenty dogs 
	(vision in). He says he thinks I'm the 
	prettiest girl he has ever seen. Every 
	night I sing and play for them (vision 
	in). I'm having a wonderful time, daddy, 
	and would not have missed it for anything.

	Tuesday
	We have just returned home from the Show.
	Geoffrey won the jumping contest - his 
	horse jumped seven feet (vision in). I 
	can ride wonderfully well now and Geoffrey 
	is teaching me to drive his car - (vision 
	in). Geoffrey is very clever - he can do 
	almost anything.

	Friday
	Daddy, something wonderful has happened. 
	Last night Geoffrey and I were sitting 
	out on the verandah watching the beautiful 
	sunset - and then - and then - Oh, Daddy, 
	I don't know what to tell you - but 
	Geoffrey told me I was the dearest and 
	sweetest girl in all the world and that he 
	loved me. He asked me if I loved him well 
	enough to become engaged to him - and I 
	said "yes" - that is, if you consent, 
	Daddy, which I feel sure you will for it 
	means making your little Peggy the 
	happiest girl in the world. Geoffrey's 
	mother came out and found us - and he 
	told her all about it - she kissed me and 
	said she was very pleased. I was all she 
	could desire. They are all so anxious to 
	meet you now, Daddy.

	Saturday
	Mr. & Mrs. Gilchrist and Geoffrey have 
	decided to spend the rest of our holidays 
	at their City home at Pott's Point. I am 
	to stay with them and we are going to all 
	the theatres, etc. We are arriving home 
	on Wednesday 11th and Mrs. Gilchrist is 
	inviting you to dinner at their home on 
	Thursday the 12th. They are all so anxious 
	to meet you, especially Geoffrey who is 
	waiting for your consent to our engagement. 
	Now, Daddy, be sure to look your very best 
	- we dress for dinner, you know. I've 
	never seen you in a dinner suit but I'm 
	sure you must look nice. 

	My fondest love,

		Peggy

	P.S. Be sure and write at once and let 
	me know if Thursday night will suit you.

Bill finishes reading the letter - he says to himself:

	Well, blime, here's a nice fix to be in. 
	This is what I got for having a lady in 
	the family.

Then he continues:

	Well, what am I goin' to do about it?

He looks again at the letter and the postscript answers his 
question.

	P.S. Be sure and write at once and let 
	me know if Thursday night will suit you.

He then and there gets pen and paper and an old dictionary 
he has and puts them before him. He seizes the pen in his 
unaccustomed fingers and page after page he writes and 
rewrites and, after repeated failures, he gives it up with 
a sigh of despair. - Then a sudden inspiration seizes him - 
he says:

	"Old Tom is the chap for this job if I can 
	only find him sober."

He puts on his hat and leaves the room.

42
Cheap lodging house near Bill's place - Bill enters.

	Tom - educated dead beat.

43
Poverty room. Tom is seen at table reading. Bill enters and 
explains the fix he is in, the result is that a letter is 
written to Peggy in great style and, after liberally 
rewarding the writer, Bill leaves with the precious 
document.

44
Exterior. Bill coming out of house and walking over to 
pillar box and drops the letter in and heaves a sigh of 
relief and pleasure.

	The dinner suit was a nightmare to Bill - 
	however he thought of a way out of it.

45
Exterior - Woolf's Second Hand Shop - Bathurst Street. Bill 
enters.

46
Interior shop. Bill asks for dinner suit. After trying on 
several, he finds one that he thinks will suit him - it is 
several sizes too large for him but the Jew dealer throws 
up his hands in an ecstasy of admiration and says:

	A lovely fit! - it couldn't have been 
	made as well to order.

Bill purchases the suit - also boots and hat and leaves the 
shop.

47
Further up Street. Bill stops at Book Shop - sees book 
"Table Manners" - he enters and buys it - then returns home.

	It was four days before the dinner party 
	and Bill spent every spare moment he had 
	in rehearsing what he was going to do and 
	say.

48
Interior Bill's room - He is seen sitting at an imaginary
dinner table, studying table etiquette and behaving politely 
to imaginary guests according to its directions.

	Allow me to have the honor of passing 
	the pepper, Miss de Vere.

	Can I have the pleasure of helping you to
	a handful of peas?

Then he studies how to use his knife and fork, etc. - 
Fade out.

	Wednesday the 11th.
	The Gilchrists arrive at the City home
	Pott's Point.

49
Scene of beautiful home at Pott's Point. The Gilchrists 
arrive in their car. As they get out they are introduced.

	Mrs. Gilchrist.
	A lady who does not consider poverty a 
	crime, but considers it an unforgivable 
	offense in her friends and bad manners 
	wherever met.

Close up Mrs. Gilchrist getting out of car.

	Mr. John Gilchrist.
	A financier who reduces everything to 
	percentages and reckons that love is 
	only possible on a solid cash basis.

Close up Mr. Gilchrist getting out of car.

	Geoffrey.
	A bright youth rather subject to his 
	parents at present but with a budding 
	sense of independence that will one day 
	astonish them.

Close up Geoffrey getting out of car.

	Diana.
	Peggy's bosom friend whom you have seen 
	before but until now have not been 
	introduced to.

Close up of Diana getting out of car.

	And now since a young girl in love is one 
	of the most charming sights in the world, 
	you had better have a real good look at -
	Peggy.

Close up of Peggy as she is being helped out of the car by 
Geoffrey. They all go indoors happily.

	Only a stone's throw from the slums, yet
	what a gulf between.

Fade out on long shot of the house.

	The night of the dinner party.

50
Exterior Gilchrist home - Fade in - Bill nervously ringing 
the bell. He is most fearfully and wonderfully arrayed in 
his second hand clothes. He hastily takes a peep at "Table 
Etiquette" book which he has in his pocket to refresh his 
memory. The man opens the door, he hastily hides the book 
in his pocket but the title of it is just peeping out 
unknown to Bill. He enters the house.

51
Interior Gilchrist mansion - Bill enters - Peggy hears him 
and comes rushing down and greets him lovingly - she holds 
him at arms' length and looks him up and down with the 
slightest suspicion of dismay clouding her happy face. 
Close up of check socks and handkerchief and tie - Peggy 
says:

	Daddy, wherever did you get the suit?

He turns round proudly yet blushingly very much impressed 
with his appearance.

Remembering the dealer's raptures, he unconsciously repeats 
his words:

	Fits better than if it was made to order, 
	don't it?

Peggy is saved the necessity of replying to his 
embarrassing question by the entrance of their hosts. They 
gaze at Bill with slightly uplifted eyebrows but Geoffrey 
is warm in his welcome to his sweetheart's father and so is 
Diana. Soon dinner is served and they enter the dining room.

52
Dining room. They all take their seats at the table. There 
are about six guests present besides the family. Bill begins 
in a bashful way to show off the knowledge he has acquired 
from that great book "Table Etiquette" - and gets dreadfully 
mixed up over it - Soup is served.

	Allow me to have the honor of passing you 
	the salt, Mrs. Gilchrist.

He rises from his seat to stretch across the table for the 
salt and knocks something over as he is doing so - all try 
to conceal their surprise but the effort is rather a 
painful one - Fish is being served. As the maid hands a 
plate to Bill he looks at it and at the sight of Fish he 
forgets everything and says, pushing it away:

	Not for me, thanks. I had fish and chips 
	for tea the other night and it poisoned 
	me. I was as sick as a dawg for days 
	after.

Everyone again looks surprised, the maid tries to hide a 
smile. The third course is served. Bill eats it ravenously 
and enjoys it thoroughly - he never remembered tasting 
anything like it before. He has finished before some of the 
others have started. He says to Mrs. Gilchrist as he is 
finishing the last mouthful:

	My word, this is a bosker duck, Mrs. 
	Gilchrist. It's as tender as a chicken. 
	I'd like a little more, please.

and pushes his plate towards her - before the astonished 
woman has time to reply, the maid comes and takes the plate 
away and comes back with a return. Bill thanks her. He 
commences to eat again then turns to Mr. Gilchrist and says:

	Well, I must say yer missus is a bosker 
	cook, Mr. Gilchrist.

Mr. Gilchrist fidgets in his chair - he is slightly annoyed. 
Bill seems to feel he is not a success. Peggy is beginning 
to look rather worried.

Asparagus is served. Bill looks at it - he has never seen it 
before - He looks shyly at them, mentally saying:

	Well, blime, I've never seen them in me 
	life - There's nothing about them in 
	"Table Etiquette"

However, he looks around the table and sees how the others 
are eating them - then he starts to pick one up and catches 
it by the soft end and it breaks and drops - after several 
attempts, he gets it to his mouth and swallows the whole lot 
with the result that the stringy part gets down his throat 
and nearly chokes him - he coughs and splutters and turns 
red - all the others watch him - at last, he takes a drink 
of water and recovers. This comedy of errors goes on until 
the fateful meal is over and an adjournment is made to the 
music room.

53
Music room at Gilchrists' home - Several other guests arrive 
- Peggy is sitting near two haughty dames - hears one of them 
ask the other:

	Who is that dreadful looking person over 
	there? Look at his clothes.

The other, surveying Bill through a lorgnette as if he were 
some curious animal at the Zoo, replies:

	What you might call a SACK suit.

Peggy moves away, ashamed of her father and angry with his 
critics. Presently, Peggy is persuaded to sing and play and 
she does so in a charming manner and wins the admiration of 
every one present. Bill is very proud of her. At last, the 
guests depart. Bill is absolutely disgusted and, oppressed 
by a sense of failure, makes an awkward exit and drops his 
book "Table Etiquette" out of his pocket. Geoffrey picks it 
up and returns it to him. The young man is plainly staggered 
by the title of the book. Bill is very much ashamed and he 
says goodbye and leaves.

54
Exterior Gilchrists' home. Bill comes out - Special title.

55
Interior Gilchrists' music room. The situation is somewhat 
strained. Peggy is feeling humiliated. Mr. & Mrs. Gilchrist 
are distinctly frigid, conscious that they have been imposed 
upon by someone of no class. Geoffrey tries to suppress the 
fact that he is worried and disturbed - Diana alone shows no 
change in her manner. Peggy relieves the situation by saying 
it is time for bed and beating a hurried retreat. Geoffrey 
opens the door for her and sees her to the foot of the 
stairs.

56
Foot of stairs. Peggy and Geoffrey come into scene. Geoffrey 
kisses her and, making a valiant effort, says:

	Good night, darling. I like your father
	immensely.

Peggy hurries upstairs and Geoffrey returns to the Music 
Room.

57
Music Room. Geoffrey enters just in time to hear his mother 
say with aristocratic scorn:

	He is quite a common person. His manners 
	and his clothes are dreadful.

Geoffrey replies warmly -

	He has not been educated, that's all. But 
	what does it matter so long as Peggy is a 
	lady?

The mother answers:

	Good birth is essential. Do not forget 
	you are a Gilchrist, Geoffrey. Peggy is a 
	sweet girl - but her father is impossible. 
	We could not dream of you marrying into 
	such a family.

Geoffrey angrily continues:

	I love Peggy and that is enough for me.

and Geoffrey flings out of the room.

58
Pretty verandah scene. Geoffrey comes out and starts pacing 
up and down, thinking deeply, and his face is overcast with 
gloom - As his thoughts turn to Peggy, the clouds are driven 
away by the sunshine of love - Fade out. 

	The next night, a Theatre party had been 
	arranged.

59
Exterior Gilchrists' home. The family and Peggy are seen 
leaving in a car. Peggy is quiet and grave - the old 
atmosphere of cordiality is gone - Geoffrey had quite 
recovered - he came to the same conclusion that Peggy and he 
loved each other and nothing else mattered, and his parents' 
or the world's opinion were naught to him. As they drive 
along, Geoffrey is seen holding Peggy's hand.

60
Kings Cross WIlliam Street. Night scene.

The Gilchrists' car is seen coming along the street when it 
suddenly develops engine trouble and stops, and on the 
street corner only a few feet away there is a small crowd of 
people and Bill is singing at the top of his voice to the 
strains of the violin.

He is singing the words:

	She thought her father was a cove
	With thousands in the bank,
	A leader on the Stock Exchange
	Or else a man of rank.
	She pictured 'im a 'owling toff!
	'E never let 'er know
	'E was an organ grinder
	In the streets of O-hi-o

As the last syllable leaves his lips, Bill catches sight of 
the Gilchrists and  his dear Peggy and he knows that he is 
seen by them all. But not a sign of the recognition is 
betrayed on either side. The minor car breakdown is quickly 
adjusted and the car drives on in silence. Close up of Bill 
overwhelmed and agitated by the discovery.

	When the Theatre party returned home ...

61
Interior music room. All arrive - Peggy pleads a headache 
and begs to be excused and retires to her room.

62
Peggy's bedroom at Gilchrists'. Peggy enters and collapses in 
a state of grief and moans:

	My daddy a street singer - oh, what will 
	they think of me?

Suddenly, she springs to her feet and dries her eyes - she 
impulsively decides to see Mrs. Gilchrist at once. She will 
not remain under their roof any longer. She hurriedly leaves 
the room.

63
Exterior Library door. Peggy enters and pauses with her hand 
on the door, hearing voices inside.

64
Interior Library - Mr. & Mrs. Gilchrist and Geoffrey in the 
library having high words between them. His mother is saying 
sternly:

	I tell you, Geoffrey, it cannot be. The 
	man has imposed upon us all. The 
	engagement must end. You cannot marry the 
	daughter of a street beggar.

65
Exterior Library door - Peggy overhears the words and quickly
opens the door.

66
Same as Scene 64. Peggy bursts impetuously into the room - 
she faces Mrs. Gilchrist and exclaims with quivering lips:

	My father is no beggar - what he had done 
	was for my sake. But you need not fear for 
	your son, Mrs. Gilchrist. I am going out 
	of his life forever.

Geoffrey is hurt by her words - hastening to her side, he 
takes her hand and passionately declares:

	I love you more than ever, Peggy. No one on 
	earth shall part us.

She pushes him gently from her and says:

	Your mother is quite right, Geoffrey. Our 
	marriage is impossible.

With tears in her eyes but with head erect, she hastens from 
the room.

	Early the next morning, before the 
	Gilchrist family are awake.

67
Sunrise scene. Exterior Gilchrists mansion. Peggy is seen 
leaving the house.

68
Exterior Convent. The bell is ringing for morning prayers. 
Peggy is seen entering the gates. She thinks, only six weeks 
ago, she left there a happy girl - now she returns a broken-
hearted one. She walks up the path towards the entrance - 
the dear kind Mother Superior meets her there and she can 
see at once that there is something wrong. She puts her arms 
around her and takes her indoors.

69
Room in the Convent. Peggy and the Mother Superior enters - 
she looks at her and says:

	Why, Peggy dear, what ever is the matter?

Seated at the feet of the Mother Superior - the poor girl 
tells her pitiful story. With every mark of gracious 
sympathy, the nun listens and, at the conclusion, says:

	Your father is a good and brave man. Do 
	not grieve, my child - with Heaven's help, 
	it will all come right in the end.

70
Interior of the Gilchrists' - Geoffrey reads the letter that 
Peggy had put under his door.

	Dear Geoffrey,

	I am going back to the Convent. Do not 
	attempt to see me again. It would only be 
	painful for us both. I have quite made up
	my mind. I could not be the cause of 
	separating you from your family and I will 
	always think with love and gratitude of 
	the father who has sacrificed so much for 
	me - goodbye.

	Peggy.

Despite this letter, Geoffrey decides at once he will see 
her again, and make a passionate appeal to her and try and 
make her realise what this separation means to him. He 
hastily puts on his motor coat and hat and leaves the house.

71
Exterior Convent - Geoffrey's car drives up and he alights - 
he says to the nun who meets him:

	I must see Miss Garvan at once on urgent 
	and important business.

She tells him to enter.

72
Hall in Convent. Nun tells him to be seated and she leaves 
and presently comes back and takes him along to the room 
where Peggy is.

73
Private room in the Convent. Geoffrey enters - Peggy is 
there. His voice trembles with emotion when he addresses 
her:

	Peggy, this is terrible, dear. I cannot 
	live without you.

She stands at a distance from him, struggling to be calm.

	It is harder for me than you, Geoffrey, 
	but I must go through with it.

He answers:

	Say you will marry me, dear. I can live 
	without my people and their money. You are 
	more to me than all else in the world. Oh, 
	Peggy, do not cast me off.

She slowly shakes her head and says:

	My love is yours forever, Geoffrey, but I 
	will not accept the sacrifice you offer. 
	Nor will I marry into a family that 
	despises my father.

He continues to plead with her but she remains firm, though 
the trial is one that shakes her to the soul. Suddenly, she 
comes to his side and says:

	Good-bye, Geoffrey.

He clasps her in his arms and strains her to him. Breaking 
away from him with a resolution that tears her to the heart, 
she hastens from the room. Geoffrey stands there alone like
one bereft of all hope of happiness. He slowly leaves the 
Convent, realising that his pleadings had failed and his 
heart is broken.

	The next day.

74
Bill's room at Woolloomooloo. Bill is reading a letter from 
Peggy:

	Dear Father, 

	It is all over with Geoffrey - our 
	engagement is broken. I am back at the 
	Convent. The Reverend Mother has very 
	kindly given me a position on the teaching 
	staff, so it will not be necessary for you 
	to sing in the streets any longer in order 
	to pay for my education. I am touched to 
	the heart when I think of the sacrifices 
	you have made for me these years past. 
	Come to see me soon, Daddy.

	Yours loving,

	Peggy.

Bill puts down the letter and strides up and down his little 
apartment agitatedly, wondering what he can do now to save 
Peggy whom out of sheer love he had deceived so long. Now he 
has become an obstacle to her happiness. All night he sits 
and thinks. At last, his eye rests on the corner of the 
mantlepiece where lay several little mementos of her 
childhood - among them is the fairy book "The Prince and the 
Beggar Maid" - instantly, as by inspiration,a bold idea 
flashes into his mind.

He says:

	When the Woodcutter bloke confessed that 
	his daughter was not really his child and 
	she turned out to be the lost princess, 
	the King and his Missus let the Prince, 
	their son, marry her and everything in 
	the garden was lovely.

He sits and muses for a while - then he says:

	Well, I'm the woodcutter, ain't I? and 
	Geoffrey is the Prince, and his pa and ma 
	are the King and Queen, and Peggy - why, 
	Peggy's got to be the lost princess and not 
	my daughter at all.

As these fairy characters are mentioned, each is thrown on 
the screen and then fades out, revealing the characters in 
the story.

	The next day, filled with heroic spirit, 
	Bill goes to see the Gilchrists to put his 
	scheme into operation.

75
Exterior Gilchrist Mansion. Bill is seen ringing at the 
bell. The servant shows him in.

76
Library Gilchrist Mansion. Servant shows Bill into the 
Library and then takes his message to Mrs. Gilchrist. A 
little later, both Mr. & Mrs. Gilchrist enter the room.
Nervously twisting his hat in his rough hands, he stumbles
with broken sentences into his strange story:

	I have come to tell you that Peggy is not
	my daughter.

These words cause a momentary sensation. He continues:

	When I was courting my missus, she was a 
	nurse at a rich house. There were only 
	three in the family - husband, wife and 
	little Peggy. They were swell English 
	people. The wife died and the husband was 
	broken-hearted. He handed little Peggy 
	over to my missus because they loved each 
	other dearly - He paid us well and 
	promised to return and take little Peggy 
	back to England. Then he went travelling 
	into wild countries and we never seen or 
	heard of him again.

The Gilchrists look at each other in amazement and there is 
a flicker of gladness on their faces, too - for here was the 
prospect of getting rid of the only impediment to the 
marriage of their son with the girl he loved. Bill concludes:

	We loved Peggy as if she had been our own 
	child, and I've always tried to be a 
	father to her but I ain't goin' to stand in


[script is incomplete]


Screenplay by Ray Longford and Lottie Lyell
Draft submitted as "The Bloke from Woolloomooloo"




geovisit();


