The Empty Mirror

screenplay by

Barry Hershey and R. Buckingham

Story by

Barry Hershey

Walden Woods Film Company, Inc.
June 5, 1995
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.1

FADE IN:

1 PROLOGUE - (ACCOMPANIED BY A WAGNERIAN OVERTURE)
A SERIES OF GRAINY IMAGES

Snow blows over dead soldiers in a road.

A grainy image: A woman drags an emaciated corpse, its foot
leaves a shallow furrow in the sand.

A grief stricken mother caresses the face of her dead child.
The images dissolve into a gray, swirling, grainy abstraction.
2 SWIRLING, OUT-OF-FOCUS SHAPES, BLACK AND WHITE

On the sound track: VOICES, distorted, animalistic.

The TITLE comes up over the abstract images. Some of the letters
are runic, mystical. The title fades out.

The VOICES distill to one familiar VOICE.

The swirling shapes begin to focus as we MOVE back.
We're watching a "screen" suspended in space.

ON THE SCREEN: An impassioned man speaks to a rapt crowd of
Hitler Youth. ADOLF HITLER, at the peak of his power.

HITLER (German, no subtitles)
We will pass from the scene, but for you,
Germany will live on. And when we are gone,
it will be your duty to hold high in your
clenched fist the banner which we raised out
of nothingness. And I know it cannot be
otherwise, for you are flesh of our flesh and
blood of our blood, and the same spirit that
rules us burns in your young brains.

Today, standing on this stage, I am but a
tiny part of that which extends beyond, over
the whole of Germany, and we want you, German
boys and German girls, to absorb all our
hopes for the future of that Germany. We want
to be one nation, and you, my youth, shall
become that nation.

We want an end to classes and class
divisions, and you must keep such ideas from
looming within yourselves.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.2

As he forcefully gesticulates, we MOVE further back from the
screen and PAN across a dark, DANK, DUNGEON-LIKE CELL.

HITLER (0.S. in German)
We want to see one Reich in the future, and
you must prepare yourselves for it. We want
this nation to be obedient, and you must
practice obedience. We want this nation to be
peace-loving but brave as well, and you must
be peace-loving. You must be peace-loving and
brave at the same time.

3 THE SPEECH NEARS IT'S END, THE CAMERA FINDS A
SHADOWY FIGURE.

Standing alone in the cell, near an old projector, studying,
mesmerized by the images on the screen (the "cell-screen").

Wearing a suit from the thirties, this man resembles the man on
the screen: Hitler.

The projector's reels turn. The speech continues. The man in the
cell becomes increasingly prideful, strong.

HITLER (0.S., in German)
Germany lies before us, Germany marches
within us, and Germany comes after us!

The crowd answers, roaring: Sieg Heil! Ein Volk! Ein Reich!
Ein Fuhrer!

As the chanting fades, we get our first clear look at the man in
the cell, basking in the adulation. It's confirmed: this is ADOLF
HITLER.

He turns a switch to reverse the film, stops, switches it
forward. Adolf studies the last moments of the speech again.
The projected images allow him to drink from the memories of his
old power. He is Narcissus at the pond.

Off-frame, we hear the climax of Hitler's speech; and the crowd's
roaring chant: "SIEG HEIL! SIEG HEIL!"

Adolf stands watching. (we'll call him "Hitler" in historical
images, "Adolf" when in the cell)

The light reflects off the screen onto his face. As the CHEERS
begin to fade, the film clip comes to an end; followed by clear
film leader. Adolf continues staring at the screen, rapt.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.3

DISSOLVE TO: INSIDE THE PROJECTOR - IMAGES IN THE "GATE"

During the long dissolve, Adolf is temporarily superimposed over
the sprockets and gears and film strip of the projector's gate
mechanism. The end of the leader SLAPS through the gate. The
projector lamp switches off.

MUCH WIDER: The room goes dark.

Adolf turns toward us, speaks the last lines of the speech,
repeating the gestures he used, perhaps trying to improve.

ADOLF

Germany lies before us, Germany marches

within us, and Germany comes after us!
We realize he's watching his reflection in a mirror.
After a few moments he lifts both hands, fingers spread wide near
his face. Imploringly, he shakes them, this time with no emotion
-- just scrutinizing the body language.
He smoothes down his suit jacket. Checks it for flaws, then
throws back his shoulders, stiffens his back and CLICKS his
heels. He half-salutes himself.

We MOVE closer. Time SLOWS almost to a freeze. It's a long,
uncomfortable moment.

It's interrupted by a TAPPING from off screen. Adolf snaps to
guarded alertness.

4 A LAMP ON A TABLE IS QUICKLY DOUSED.
The cell goes to shadows.

CUT TO: A JAILER in a plain guard's uniform, tapping on the wall
with a long club (don't see his face here).

He passes behind Adolf, who now sits in a chair drawing ina
sketchbook. The images: Nazi architecture, massive buildings and
shrines for a new city.

In the background, the Jailer pokes around Adolf's bed with a
club, probing.

Apparently satisfied for now, the Jailer exits frame.

Adolf turns the light back on, relaxes slightly, his face droops
with fatigue. He strokes the back of his hand.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.4

IMAGES FLASH:
5 A WOMAN'S LONG BLONDE HAIR - MOSTLY ABSTRACT.
We study its soft, appealing texture.

Inexplicably, a swarthy hand rises up through the hair, and then
disappears back down into it.

DISSOLVE TO:
6 STEAM. WHITE, SWIRLING.

The steam thins. We see Adolf's chest, his suit, a pin on the
lapel -- a swastika in a circle.

Hot water pours from a faucet into an old porcelain sink. Adolf
turns it off, dips his hands into the steaming water.

The steam rises in front of his face. He cleans his hands,
nervous. Focused.

He begins to WHISTLE to himself -- a few bars from Wagner.
(along with the sound track, as if he "hears it")

SOUNDS: Distant SCREAMS, distant EXPLOSIONS, a ROARING inferno.
If Adolf hears them, its impossible to tell.

He dries his hands, and exits. We MOVE through the steam to:
7 THE WALL

It's dark stone surface is rough, moist, with veins of black
Minerals.

We move along the wall, and pass a distinct opening, a crumbling,
rough hole created by a vertical crack in the stone. A faint
bluish light shines through from the other side.

We continue along the wall to a table, on which we discover two
framed photos. One of Adolf's mother: Large, light-gray eyes
with dark, penetrating pupils and a plain, anxious face. Then the
eyes of Hitler as a child.

Nearby is a partial wooden mask of Hitler, upside down.

Finally, we discover Adolf, lying in his bed, his back to us.

With his right hand, he pinches compulsively at his left wrist,
as if trying to get at something crawling just under the skin.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.5

We MOVE slowly in towards the back of his head until the frame is
filled with blackness.

FADE UP FROM THIS BLACKNESS TO:

the gray, textured wall (an intentional repeat). We glide along
this surface, past the back-lit opening in the wall.

Again, we arrive at a table, with the two framed photos. One of
Klara, the smaller one of Hitler as a child. And again, the
Hitler mask lies on the table, but in a slightly different
position.

Finally, as before, Adolf is revealed lying in his bed, facing
away from us. This time, he is still. We move slowly in towards
the back of Adolf's head, filling the frame with BLACKNESS.

OVER THE BLACKNESS:

ADOLF (0.S., dictating)
At the extreme one becomes a symbol.

8 ADOLF IN A SINGLE POOL OF LIGHT
Pacing.

ADOLF
Every man who desires adulation will
recognize in me the pure manifestation of
that dark part of himself.

An old typewriter appears in the foreground, fingers TYPING.
Adolf turns, struts a few steps, looks at the mirror.

ADOLF (continuing)
I am the perfect reflection of each man with
a lust to dominate, who has some bias or
prejudice... some unsatisfied craving.

ON THE CELL SCREEN IN THE BACKGROUND: Townspeople greet Adolf's
car as he enters an invaded city.

ADOLF
Some will condemn me morally, but they cannot
escape the power of my image.
Their self-righteousness will dissolve as
their hearts beat with the rhythm of my
essence.

Even those poor souls who hate me will
privately envy me, because I fulfilled my
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.6

dreams while others repress their true
desires.

Thus, have I guaranteed my immortality; the
essential Hitler has a hold on every human
heart.

Adolf stops, very satisfied. But insecurity re-emerges.

He turns to the TYPIST, who for now is always seen from the back.
(he is Nordic, with blonde hair, a chiseled face, dressed in a
black SS uniform. He is eager, dutiful.)

ADOLF (to the Typist)
Does that sound cliched?....
(the Typist does not answer)
Anyway, let's end this on a poetic note:
Will to power, will to form, will to beauty.

MEDIUM CLOSE ON ADOLF: After pausing to appreciate his words, he
turns and walks out of frame, leaving blackness.

DISSOLVE TO:
9 OMITTED
10 ADOLF, AT THE PROJECTOR

Carefully threading the projector. He switches on the lamp. Its
brilliance leaks from cracks in the housing. The motor DRONES up
to speed.

The film CHATTERS through the gate. The tiny images come to
life, suspended upside-down behind the lens. Colorful this time.
We follow the beam of light through the lens outward into the
cell to the cell screen.

ON THE CELL-SCREEN: Eva, wearing her peasant dress (smiling into
the camera), on the porch of their mountain retreat. Then on the
beach, frolicking in her bathing suit. These are ‘home movie'
images. She seems remarkably innocent and young.

The camera BOOMS DOWN to Adolf in the foreground, silhouetted
against the cell-screen images of Eva.

We drift around to Adolf's face, which has softened with
nostalgia. We drift behind him again. He stands up, blocking out
the images. Hold on the blackness.

11 FADE IN: A MAGNIFYING LENS IN ADOLF'S HAND.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.7

Animated shapes swirl in the glass. It moves aside, revealing a
photographic proof sheet that captures sampled motion picture
frames, taken from a speech.

Adolf scrutinizes them with unnatural intensity.
SOUNDS: We hear a distant crowd: Sieg Heil! Echoed. It rises in
volume to a ROAR.

12 VAST RANKS OF SOLDIERS MOVE IN AND OUT OF FOCUS.

It's the 1934 party rally at Nuremberg. The ranks of soldiers,
out of focus, form abstract geometric shapes.

ADOLF
Nothing is more important to me than the
preservation of these images.

Adolf stops fiddling with the lens, crosses and sits stiffly.
Imperious. We discover DR. JOSEPH GOEBBELS kneeling on one knee
at Adolf's feet. He is short and thin, dark-haired and ferret-
faced. One leg is crippled.

ON THE CELL-SCREEN: The formations and movements are strikingly
choreographed. Formal and angular.

ADOLF
Power, order, solemnity. Look at the men,
Goebbels. The geometry. The classic lines.

Goebbels limps up to the cell-screen, moves his hands to outline
the formations.

GOEBBELS
You know what I like most? Your decision to
break the formation here and here.
Not only did it serve the composition, it
gives the impression of the Cross.

He draws the cross on the cell-screen as he's speaking, showing
the pattern.

ADOLF (nodding)
Mmmm... the Messiah theme.

He crosses back to Adolf, retakes his position at his feet.

GOEBBELS
Ah... Here it is.

CELL-SCREEN: Hitler walks slowly up the middle of the vast
formation of standing soldiers.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.8

ADOLF
Do you think I should have walked down the
aisle alone?

GOEBBELS
An interesting question.

ADOLF
My instinct was that a loner would be viewed
as less trustworthy. Better to be surrounded
by faithful lieutenants.
ADOLF (cont'd)
(studies the unfolding pageantry)
Those men, Goebbels. What are they thinking?

GOEBBELS
A person wants to be part of something beyond
his small self. To escape. To be lost ina
historic moment.

ADOLF
I wonder if their feet hurt.

Goebbels hesitates, unsure if Adolf is making a joke.

GOEBBELS
You organized us on a whole new basis.

Adolf stares questioningly.

GOEBBELS
By invoking Aryan superiority... You enabled
us to transcend regional and religious
rivalries. Even trivial issues of gender,
age. And class distinctions.

CELL SCREEN: Soldiers representing numerous German communities
eagerly answer a roll call (played in silence).

Propaganda footage, swastikas, idealized Aryan youth, zealous
crowds, build to grandiose scale.

ADOLF (stands)
I created a great circulation of energy,
self-replicating, self-reaffirming.
(after a few beats, erupts)
My god!

Pumped with adrenaline, Adolf stands near a table that displays a
model for a Nazi city. In the foreground of our shot: massive
buildings.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.9

FADE TO BLACK
13 OVER BLACK: THE CROWD SOUNDS FADE AND DISTORT

FADE IN: A montage of fragmented, abstract images: An ancient
Norse hammer (Thor's) arcs through blackness. Firelight flickers
off eight test-tubes of blood. Details of human shapes, abstract,
black and white. Black hair being pulled out of sand. Abstract
details of a skull-like death-mask. Red liquid oozes from a crack
in the ceiling.

FADE TO BLACK
13A OVER BLACK - WE HEAR METAL SPIKES RAKING ON STONE

The Jailer's club, its tip menacingly wrapped in barbed wire,
appears out of the darkness, dragging along the walls. The
Jailer's eyes glow from the dark like a wolf's in firelight.

14 ON THE TYPIST

Inscrutable, unemotional, the typist types Adolf's words. Adolf's
mood has gone dark and bitter, full of hate.

ADOLF
In the first world war, the Jews and the
Bolsheviks stabbed Germany in the back.

ON THE CELL-SCREEN: The propaganda images. Night rallies.

ADOLF
Even as German blood spilled in our just and
noble cause, the enemy within sought to
destroy us with treachery. The bad within
must be extracted. We must protect Germany. I
MUST save the motherland from this
defilement !

The veins on Adolf's face bulge with rage. He begins to COUGH,
with increasing violence, until he's hacking up phlegm. Out of
respect, the Typist averts his gaze.

Adolf hurries to wipe his mouth with his handkerchief. Adolf
pants for breath. He crosses past the cell-screen, and into the
darkness.

15 CLOSE: ADOLF UNBUTTONS THE CUFF OF HIS SHIRT SLEEVE.
A woman's hands stick the needle of a syringe into the top of a

small bottle of whitish liquid. The plunger sucks up the liquid
into the syringe. Adolf lowers his arm in readiness.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.10

16 SEVEN HITLER YOUTH, FOUR BOYS, THREE GIRLS.

The girls, feminine and petite, sit on a bench facing Adolf.
Behind them, the boys, tall and angular, stand "at ease". We keep
our distance (wider shots). Adolf paces.

ADOLF
Film is the magician's mirror. The first art
form that allows the artist to project his
dreams and fantasies into the inner life of
the viewer. To reshape and capture his soul.

He stops, turns towards the rapt twelve-to-sixteen-year-olds.

ADOLF (cont'd)
Who's the tallest here? Among the girls?

They hesitate. A tall girl bravely raises her hand.
Adolf motions for her to stand, come nearer. She does.

ADOLF
Kneel down.

She obeys, shyly. From her POV, he now looms above her.
Her tension is vaguely sexual.

ADOLF
Tell your classmates what you have
experienced.

YOUTH GIRL
I will obey my Fuhrer.

Adolf gently helps her up. She walks back to the bench.

ADOLF
What I did, I did for film. To create a
perfect reality indelibly imprinted in the
minds of billions. My works of grandeur and
destruction live on. They will touch and
transform even the unborn.

CELL-SCREEN: Spectacular Nazi parades: Soldiers, armaments,
throngs of people waving along the routes. Adolf standing in an
open car, moving in isolation among the crowds like a rolling
statue. Adoring crowds chanting Heil Hitler.

IN THE CELL, Adolf increases the volume to deafening levels.

ADOLF
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.11

I am the artist. I am the art work.

A TALL BOY'S GLASSES reflect images from the cell screen, which
progress to night parades - thousands carrying torches.

Adolf walks into the projector beam, his shadow on the screen
surrounded by the torch-bearing crowd.

ADOLF
I was Homer, I was Ulysses, I was the
Odyssey.

The images transition to night battles; all around Adolf's
shadow, which continues to grow, explosions flash, fire rages.
Heroic soldiers charge into battle.

WIDER: The Youth in the foreground, the cell-screen in the
background.

ADOLF (cont'd)
I enlisted powerful men, courageous men, to
the task of fulfilling my artistic destiny.

17 A FILE DRAWER IS SLAMMED SHUT

Adolf seems nervous, disconcerted. He yanks open another file
drawer.... flips hurriedly through it, searching. Again, is
frustrated. SLAMS this drawer closed... Tries to collect
himself, to stem the panic.

ADOLF
Where was I.... Oh... I remember now...

Adolf waits. Off screen, the Typist hits the carriage return.
ADOLF
One power alone makes a great leader:
imagination, divine vision.
(aside, to the Typist)
I took those words from someone...
I can't remember who.
He inflates himself, then exhales, relaxing, content.

ADOLF
Ah, it's good to be writing again.

Adolf watches the Typist to see if he will react. He doesn't.

18 DISSOLVE TO: THE RECORD PLAYER.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.12

Adolf puts a record on the machine. He moves the stylus to a
specific piece. It SCRATCHES as he sets it down.

THE MUSIC: An instrumental portion of Handel's Messiah.

Adolf reacts; this isn't the part he was looking for.
He moves the stylus, but again, wrong section.

He tries once more. At last, he finds the portion he desires.
He moves his hands in small rhythmic motion, humming with the
music.

BACKGROUND CELL-SCREEN: A "cathedral of lights", created by
German search lights in the night sky (from "Olympia").

OPERATIC CHORUS
For unto us a child is born.
Unto us a son is given,
and the government shall be
upon his shoulder, and his name
shall be called Wonderful, Councilor,
the mighty God, the everlasting Father,
the Prince of Peace.

As the music rises, his arm movements get broader and more
energetic. He loses himself in "conducting" his orchestra.

He begins to 'sing' the voices of the instruments, becoming so
consumed that he takes on an almost possessed quality.

The music crescendos; Adolf ends posed with one hand reaching for
the heavens, the other clutched desperately over his chest,
suggesting either divine inspiration or insanity.

19 OMITTED
20 OUT OF THE BLACKNESS BEHIND HIM, A BLONDE WOMAN APPEARS

Stepping into the projector's beam. Her diaphanous gown glows in
the light. She seems to descend gradually, angelic. As she
approaches, the light on her face becomes luminous. She seems
innocent, with large blue eyes that soothe and tempt. We notice
a cross around her neck. This is EVA BRAUN, as seen and
idealized from Hitler's point of view.

Her motions, and time, slow down.
Adolf senses her, turns, backing out of the frame as she comes

closer. His dark hair edges off frame, which fills with
whiteness.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.13

FADE TO PURE WHITE.
21 FULL FRAME WHITE

A hand enters, caresses the smooth, white skin. Track with the
hand along her body, deliberately framing out her face.

MACRO CLOSE on the back-lit blonde hair of Eva's thigh as Adolf's
fingers move along the "horizon," then push against her flesh.

Extreme close on Adolf's lips, close to her ear.

ADOLF (whispers)
Your fairness cleanses me....
(lies next to her)
To make love to you is to make love to all of
Germany.

She runs her hands sensually along the straps of his uniform, his
leather belt. Fondles his iron cross.

EVA (playfully)
My Fuhrer.

ADOLF (smiles)
My little Bavarian angel.

She responds affectionately, and for a few moments, they are lost
in each other. She pulls his hand to her mouth, kisses it. Then
moves to kiss his face.

A MENTAL IMAGE FLASHES: The profile of a SWARTHY MAN'S face,
looking down, moving downward through space, very slowly, very
dreamlike.

IN THE CELL: Adolf grimaces. The light on his face dims.

AGAIN, THE IMAGE FLASHES: The Swarthy Man's face descending
through space, his eyes focused downward.

IN THE CELL: Adolf has become agitated. He FREEZES,
hearing the Jailer's club RAKING on stone. He sits up.

EVA
What?

She reaches for him. Disgusted, he pushes her hand away.
She recoils, confused.

LOW ANGLE, BOOTS IN FOREGROUND: Adolf pulls one boot on.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.14

ADOLF
I represented the rejection of the modern...

EVA (sits up behind him)
What is it, Adolf?

With his back to her, he pulls on the other boot. While he's
struggling, he grumbles to himself.

ADOLF
(0.S., the Typist TYPES)
...a return to the world of Homer....
In which war is not about massive
destruction, but remains first and foremost
an instrument to enhance a hero's personal
glory.

He pauses. Then stands up. We pull away with him from Eva. He
walks off frame, his boots LOUD on the floor.

CUT TO: He lays unframed kitschy paintings on a table. Hold on
the last one, a woman nursing a baby.

FADE TO BLACK.
22 PULL BACK FROM THE BLACK FIELD

and discover it's a black section of one of the so called
"degenerate" paintings: an expressionistic painting of a woman.

The middle of the painting starts to blacken. Eventually, it
catches fire.

PULL BACK TO reveal this painting is on the top of a pile of
paintings, all aflame.

CLOSE ON ADOLF: The fire reflecting off his face.

ADOLF (to the Typist, 0.S.)
Modern art is the enfevered fantasies of an
incurably sick people. The fact that nine
tenths of artistic trash, literary filth and
theatrical idiocy can be traced to the
account of one people, constituting hardly
one percent of all the country's inhabitants
can simply not be talked away. It's the plain
truth.

ON THE CELL SCREEN: The most "Norman Rockwell" of Nazi Art.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.15

IN THE CELL: Another "degenerate" painting, and then another are
tossed onto the flames: but these are recognized as great art
(Van Gogh, Matisse - from the "degenerate art" exhibit). Their
empty frames lie in a stack nearby, efficiently saved.

The TYPING diminishes to a CLICKING. Adolf turns to see:
23 A WOMAN'S LEGS, SEEN FROM CALF TO THIGH

walk into a black frame, the hem of her black dress fluttering.
We HEAR her high heels on the floor.

TILT UP to her hand carrying a ceremonial dagger with a long
gilded blade and circular swastika attached to the end of the
grip (we don't see her face).

ADOLF

watches the paintings burn. The CLICKING of the woman's shoes
gets louder. He tries not to notice.

24 KEYS TYPE ON WHITE PAPER, THE HEADING:
"Reason is the devil's whore."

The Typist hits the carriage return several times. Reads the
words. Adolf closes a folder, having read a page inside.

ADOLF (with malice)
The Jewish - Christian creed with its
effeminate ethics undermines our vitality.
Morality is decay, a blemish like the Hebrew
circumcision. The German people must learn to
distrust reason; the dirty and degrading
idea of conscience.

CELL SCREEN: Soldiers goose-stepping. The POUNDING of boots on
pavement continues throughout the scene.

IN THE CELL: The Typist dutifully hammers the keys in rhythm.

ADOLF
What number was the last footnote?

TYPIST
Twenty-eight.

ADOLF
Footnote twenty-nine. The Fuhrer wrote these
words for the first draft of Mein Kampf...
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.16

The morning of May 2, 1924 in Landsberg
Prison.

He walks over, drops the folder on the Typist's desk.
To the sounds of MARCHING from the screen, Adolf turns to the
mirror, pushes his hair back and adjusts his uniform.

ADOLF (to the Typist)
In other countries, why do they keep the
German title, "Mein Kampf", instead of
translating it to "My Struggle?"

ON THE CELL SCREEN: Hitler reviewing the troops at a parade, then
more of the soldiers goose-stepping (abstracted).

25 THE MIRROR - THE REFLECTION ON IT IS FROZEN, OUT OF FOCUS

The image focuses: Adolf lit by one source, off screen, his face
rimmed in light, still "frozen".

He moves. He seems to have a lamp in his hand, just off frame.
He moves his arm slowly in an arc, studying the way the lamp
affects the moving light and shadows on his face.

He moves the lamp behind his head, "back-lighting" himself,
throwing his face into darkness.

ADOLF (to the Typist, 0.S.)
The sun is uncontrollable, unforgiving.
With the sun you can't shape or sculpt
reality.

When in front of him, the lamp has a flattering effect on his
wrinkles. He lets it linger here.

ADOLF
I hate the sun.

He "places" the light, and takes a dramatic-speech pose.

ADOLF'S POV: A vague outline of a camera stands behind and to the
side of the mirror.

ON ADOLF: He checks his pose in the mirror again.
CLICK: The image freezes into a still photograph.1
CUT AHEAD TO: Adolf, unsatisfied, places the still photo on an

easel, studies the pose captured there, and then the mirror, and
then repeats the pose, to perfect it.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.17

CLICK: Another portrait is taken. The image freezes to a still.

CUT AHEAD TO: Adolf, still unsatisfied, again places the still
photo on an easel, nervously pushes his hair back from his face,
and then obsessively uses the mirror to improve.

CLICK. CLICK. CLICK.

Photo after pose after photo after pose. He never quite gets it
right. But it gets better. By the last pose, it's a striking
freeze-frame of passion and righteous rage.

FADE TO RED
26 FADE IN: RED LIQUID PUDDLES IN A CORNER OF THE CELL
SERIES OF SHOTS:

Hot coals turn from red to black as they cool. Details of
horrific "degenerate" art (by Otto Dix). Chunks of mortar between
stones in a Speerian cell wall crack and crumble away -- pressure
from beyond the wall, barely revealing human bones underneath.
The image shakes subtly, a deep vibration, as if in an
earthquake.

27 A HAND-WRITTEN ENVELOPE ADDRESSED TO THE FUHRER

A hand pulls a letter from the envelope. It's worn and tattered,
obviously read and re-read many times.

ADOLF

Let's enter one more into the record.

(pulls it from envelope, reads as

the Typist types, 0.S.)
This is from April, 1935. A woman from
Berlin. "My fervently adored Fuhrer. You
have a birthday, and we know only two ardent
wishes: May everything in our fatherland be
now and in the future just as you want it to
be and may God provide that you be preserved
for us forever. Your loyal, E.E."

ON THE CELL SCREEN behind him: boy and girl members of the Hitler
Youth exercise in strict, attractive formation.

Adolf smiles pridefully, puts the letter into a basket full of
hundreds more letters like it. Affixed to each is a postage stamp
of a Hitler portrait. Adolf sorts through them, selects another
one he likes.

28 MOVE THROUGH MODEL CITY TOWARDS GIANT DOME (BG: CELL SCREEN)
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.18

It's a fantasy land, a future Nazi utopia.

The architecture is huge stone slabs, thick columns. Towering
over all is the "main building," a gargantuan exaggeration of
scale with a huge dome.

Looking up from inside this misproportioned city, we see Adolf
lean over the buildings. His hair fallen down over his forehead.
Goebbels appears behind him.

ADOLF
There is magic in enormity, my Little Doctor.

He lifts a scaled model of the Eiffel tower into view, sets it
down next to his own eagle-topped tower. He seems disappointed to
discover that the French tower is taller.

CLOSE ON THE BASE OF THE NAZI TOWER

Adolf lifts it, slips a block under it. We TILT UP to see that
it is now just taller than the Eiffel Tower. Adolf underplays his
pleasure.

ADOLF
Overwhelming, like a dominant father.

GOEBBELS
Yes, but the art is in disguising the
technique. Brutality must be wrapped in
velvet. That's what distinguishes us from,
say... a thug like Stalin.

Goebbels pulls a three-inch roll of red cloth from his pocket.
It's tied up with gold string. Goebbels reaches to attach it to
a building...

Adolf walks toward the Typist, begins dictating quietly.

ADOLF
Wagner made the exorbitant demand that the
stage become an hypnotic instrument under the
power of the artist.
I imposed the same demand on Germany.

He walks back to Goebbels, who has decorated Germania for a
parade, turning the main mall into something almost festive.

ADOLF
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.19
History is an error to be rewritten by the
visionary playwright.
FROM GERMANIA STREET LEVEL
Looking up at the front of the massive main building.

The entire "mall" is now decorated with Nazi flags on buildings,
flags suspended from light poles, etc.

Dr. Goebbels, just above the skyline, unfurls a long roll of red
cloth -- the largest red Nazi flag. It drops down the length of
the tall tower.

Adolf inspects it, nods.
A TOY SOLDIER STANDS ON A STREET OF THE MODEL CITY

Adolf's hand picks it up. We follow it along the street
towards the huge dome. The dome's top is lifted off.
We rise up over the lip, hearing CROWDS!

INSIDE THE DOME

Adolf's hand places the toy soldier on a giant podium.
We discover ADOLF'S FACE, peering in over the top.

ANGLE UP at the tiny man on the huge podium, Adolf's
proportionately enormous head looking down on us.

ADOLF
While Wagner brought the German myths to the
operatic stage, I brought them to the world.
I am the superman, a Teutonic knight on the
quest for the Holy Grail. Compared to me,
Wagner was a minimalist.

He says it with no self-irony. Goebbels watches him with a
chameleon face that serves whatever Adolf projects onto him.

WAGNERIAN MUSIC builds aggressively, as if to dominate Adolf. To
put him in his place. Adolf's mood changes. The hollow bravado
wanes. Humility overtakes him.

The music crescendos. Followed by the roar of applause.

BEAMS OF LIGHT form a mini "cathedral of lights" behind the dome.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.20

TINY SWASTIKAS flutter down onto Germania. Adolf hears the
applause, re-inflates himself. He gently sprinkles swastikas
from his hand, like a gardener, from above the city.

LONG DISSOLVE TO:
29 HITLER STARING OFF INTO SPACE (NO CELL SCREEN)
ADOLF
Wait... I thought you said our count was five
million seven hundred thousand.

Hands roll a map of 1930's Europe onto a war table.

GOERING
They're using the six million figure.

GENERAL GOERING is dressed in one of his elaborate uniforms with
numerous medals. Dangling from his belt is a large ceremonial
battle sword in its ornate scabbard. He stands back, with his
fist on its handle.

ADOLF
Typical. A clever exaggeration.
(thinks)

Let's use that figure, Goering. All the
better for us. History likes round numbers.

Adolf jots figures on a piece of paper near the map.
He looks out over Europe.

ADOLF
The war total was 55 million....

ADOLF (cont'd)
Out of that the camps and the death squads
were responsible for only eleven or twelve

million.
GOERING
Twelve.
ADOLF
Could we say that over half of those were
non-Jews?
GOERING

We could say that over fifty percent were
Christians, atheists and Pagans.

ADOLF
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.21

Awkward language.

GOERING
What term covers Gypsies, Polish
intelligentsia, Russian upper strata,
prisoners of war, French and Yugoslavian
partisans, political opponents...

ADOLF
Should we use "gentiles?"
(calculates in his mind)
But... if twelve million were liquidated and
six million were Jews... Or is five point
seven...? Scheissa! Why can't I get
accurate numbers?! Where's Himmler?!

GOERING
I would stand behind this wording: "Almost
half the dead were from the Christian world."

Adolf considers, then nods, resigning himself to this.

ADOLF
Yes... And yet the Jews take they're removal
so personally.

GOERING
What strikes me is that little notice is
taken of the fact that the first biological
cleansing eliminated German nationals: The
disabled, the retarded, the mentally ill...

ADOLF
And the bed wetters....
ADOLF (cont'd)
(shakes his head)
The useless eaters. Commenced, September one,
nineteen-thirty nine.

GOERING
Actually it was October first. You back-dated
the decree one month to correspond with the
first day of the war.

ADOLF
Tidier... War for living space. War for race
purification. All begun on the same day.
He says this without emotion. All business. Cold.

DISSOLVE TO:
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.22

29A OMITTED
30 CUT TO: SIDE VIEW OF AN SS UNIFORM

Move up along the side of the uniform, to discover a long dagger
in its sheath, hanging from the belt. We travel further up along
the side, around to the front, to above the collar where a post
sticks out to hold up the hat.

31 ON THE CELL SCREEN: IMAGES OF HITLER WEARING HATS
Followed by other peaceful images of life at the Berghof.

IN THE CELL: Eva watches these images while Adolf flips through
loose photos lying on open pages of a photo album.

EVA (V.0.)
Look at you posing for my camera, as if you
didn't know I was there.

Adolf ignores her, stays focused on the images. They're "home
photos," of Hitler with Eva, with his dog, in various home
settings. Adolf wears a hat in a few of them.

ADOLF (0.S.)
Do I look more mysterious in a hat?

Eva turns from the home movies, shakes her head. He then puts the
hatless picture on top of the hat picture, and moves on.

She notices a photo of Hitler with Himmler and Goering. Compared
to their costumes, Hitler's is noticeably plain.

EVA
Why did you never wear an official army, SA
or SS uniform?

ADOLF
Better to remain undefined.
(stops, reflects on this)
Suggestive indefiniteness.

She finds one of Hitler smiling.
EVA

There are so few public pictures of you
smiling.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.23

ADOLF
Before I became Chancellor, there were none.
Nor any with children or small animals.

While Adolf continues looking at photos, Eva goes back to the
home movies.

ON THE CELL SCREEN: Adolf with puppies running around at his
feet. He remains standing, stiff, unwilling to bend to them.

Then, images of Eva on an ocean liner.

EVA

The Iceland vacation was a joyous time for my
sisters and me. You should have come with
us. You were always inspired by the Viking
sagas.

(she pauses to remember)
The only flaw in the trip was a delay before
we departed from Hamburg.
A family was removed from the ship...

ADOLF
(cuts her off)
I had no time for holiday trips.

EVA
The police came just before we were to leave.
I'll never forget the cries of the woman.

ADOLF (roars)
Be quiet! Never mention that again.

EVA
I don't understand how a family with children
could be a threat to any of our...

Adolf suddenly becomes extremely angry, knocks aside the photos
and albums he's sorting. He jumps up and walks toward us until
he's EXTREMELY CLOSE.

ADOLF
(grumbles under his breath)
The greater the man, the more insignificant
should be his woman.

In the background, Eva waits for him to calm down. Like a
retriever dog, she looks around for something to offer, picks up
the photo album, brings it to him, holding it up.

EVA (meek, 0.S.)
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.24

Look...

It's a photo of herself when she was young, blonder and fatter
(Hoffman 242-EB-32-1B). Adolf ignores her at first. Finally
looks at the photo. Eva hurries to ingratiate.

EVA
Did you like me better when I was blonde with
baby fat or later when I was brunette and
thin?
ADOLF
(still dominant)
I liked you when you were blonde and thin.
FADE OUT:
32 FADE IN: THE WOMAN IN THE BLACK DRESS
stands in her own light.
She is tall, black haired, domineering, dressed in a sleek,
formal gown in the style of the thirties. Shoulders and cleavage
revealed, very white skin. Made up and styled to look
mysterious, alluring.

Her black dress blends with the dark background so that her body
-- from bust up -- seems to float in space.

33 AT THE PROJECTOR, HITLER'S ALONE, WITHOUT EVA

He's still a little lost in the thought. After a beat, he
smoothes back his hair, tries to recompose himself.

He becomes aware of someone in the cell... turns.

ADOLF
Freud?

ADOLF'S POV:

Across the room is SIGMUND FREUD, who appears as one would
expect: archetypal. As if in a classic portrait.

Adolf keeps his eyes on Freud, steps towards him, circles him.
Takes a posture of strength.

ON THE CELL SCREEN behind him: abstract turbulence.

FREUD keeps his eyes on Adolf, studying him.
Adolf clearly doesn't like being measured.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.25

ADOLF
You could never understand a man of will.

FREUD
You prefer the cloak of enigma.

ADOLF
The problem with you Jews is you think you
know so much.

Freud looks back at him, indifferent.

ADOLF
The inside of a man, this foolishness about
the id, and... superego...
A man is the sum total of his acts! Success
justifies all.

FREUD
Interesting. So, what can we learn from your
actions?

ADOLF

A man is his own creation, his own artwork.
To use only reason is to close the door to
the power of an idea like, "blood and soil."

FREUD
What of your inner world?

ADOLF
I know myself completely. I know my personal
myths. That is enough.

He walks away from Freud, stops, straightens his jacket.

ON THE CELL SCREEN in the background: More abstract turbulence --
made to look like a Rorschach test.

ADOLF
With the answers to a thousand questions, you
and your kind could not begin to understand
me. Only a poet can touch the edge of the
Fuhrer mystery.

Freud carefully considers Adolf's words. ADOLF stares back with
ominous intensity. Adolf then takes an abrupt,
aggressive step towards Freud, rising even further in the frame.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.26

FREUD - slows to freeze frame, literally, with his hand frozen
awkwardly at the tip of his beard. He is dehumanized. The SOUNDS
also "freeze", clipped, echoing to nothing.

DISSOLVE TO:
34 THREE BLONDE CHILDREN, SIX YEARS OLD, PLAYING

Two girls and a boy are sitting on his lap. Another girl plays
with the hair of the first. Filling the frame, Adolf is
surrounded by fair-haired youth. He's very playful, comfortable,
more loose than he ever is with adults.

They lift his spirits. He keeps them close as he dictates to the
Typist.

ADOLF

From Latvia to Lithuania. From Estonia to
Slovakia. From Russia, from Poland to the
Ukraine -- wherever we found them....
250,000 blonde-haired, blue-eyed nuggets
harvested for the Third Reich...

(as an afterthought)
Nordic nuggets, to lighten up the dark
Bavarians.

TYPIST (stops typing)
We took children from their parents?

ADOLF
They were misplaced Germans. We brought them
home.

ON THE TYPIST: He gazes at Hitler, as if he might question
further, but then nods and goes back to work.

35 FADE IN: A PAINT BRUSH DIPS IN COLOR, MOVES TO A FACE

As the brush adds finishing detail, we PULL BACK to reveal a
self-portrait of Adolf, which depicts him in an overcoat with
collar up, dramatically knight-like and "Aryan." Behind him in
the portrait are glorious, unpopulated mountains and plains:
living space.

WAGNERIAN MUSIC accompanies his work. Along with TYPING.

For reference, Adolf glances at a classical bust of the ideal
Aryan - high cheek bones, square jaw, full lips and near perfect
nose.

ADOLF
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.27

When I was a small boy in Linz, I frequently
played alone. I would walk to the top of a
hill overlooking the city. In dark solitude,
I imagined that I had absolute command of
those heights and all the lands below.

Only the trees on the hillside heard my cry:
HEIL HITLER! HEIL HITLER! Those private
moments stayed with me through the darkest
days.

Adolf stops painting, satisfied at first. But as he scrutinizes
the self-portrait, insecurity re-emerges.

ADOLF
The tragedy of every charismatic leader is to
be imprisoned by his fate. His triumphs are
finite, his needs infinite.

DISSOLVE TO:
36 ADOLF'S HAND AUTOGRAPHS A POSTCARD PRINT OF THE PAINTING

ADOLF (to the Typist, 0.S.)
The Fuhrer cult was the fulfillment of a
mysterious longing.

We realize he's autographing a large stack of the postcards made
from the painting of himself.

ADOLF (0.S.)
Nazism and Christianity are based on the same
idea that one individual could provide
salvation. A simple man from a small
cottage...

IN THE CELL, another photograph is autographed.

...could work a miracle of enlightenment and
faith in a world of skepticism and despair.

ON THE SCREEN: night rallies build to mystical ritual, torches
and giant red Nazi flags, storm troopers marching. Tribal,
animalistic, CHANTING.

ADOLF (in cell to Typist)
My need to control fulfilled others' need to
be controlled. That was my euphoric
discovery. The union of my urges and the
German people's desires.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.28

If you unite a powerful people whose first

duty is obedience, you can do anything.
(stops and thinks)

God I loved order.

Then daylight, and shots about the individual becoming part of a
larger cause, merging into the crowd. Then SIEG HEILS.

37 CELL-SCREEN: YOUNG WOMEN IN WHITE DANCE IN A FIELD

ADOLF (to himself)
Every woman a potential source of soothing,
warmth, love. Every man, a rival.

Adolf walks into the shot, his back to us, silhouetted.
Approaching the women.

ADOLF (pre-lapped)
"The most German of Beings."

DISSOLVE TO:
38 ADOLF'S CHIN LEANS ON THE HILT OF A MEDIEVAL SWORD
Adolf lifts his head, puts the sword down.

ADOLF
(continuing, 0.S. at first)
".,..I am the German spirit. Consider the
incomparable magic of my works."

We notice Freud. Hitler's back is to him.

FREUD
Did you write that?

Adolf lifts a medieval book that lies open near him.

ADOLF
".,.the incomparable magic of my works."
(turns to Freud)
It's Wagner.

He closes the ancient book, stands and recites from memory.

ADOLF (cont'd)
"Man is a beast of prey, developing through
constant progress. The beast conquers, founds
great realms by the subjugation of other
subjugators, forms states and organizes
civilizations, in order to enjoy his booty in
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.29

peace... Attack and defense, suffering and
struggle, domination and servitude, all
sealed with blood...."

FREUD
Are those Wagner's words?

ADOLF
We are both illusionists and showmen.... I
made my life so different, so vibrant, so
extreme... This is how I have accumulated

power. I wrapped blood and iron in a cloud of
mystic communion with the German 'Volk.'

(he extends the book, shaking it)
Whoever wants to understand Hitler must first
know Wagner.

He drops the book for emphasis, notices that Freud is scribbling
on his analyst's pad. Frustrated, Adolf suddenly jumps up grabs
the pad from Freud's hand.

He crosses to the wood stove, opens the door, tosses it into hot
embers. The pad FLAMES up.

ON FREUD
As Adolf approaches, defiant, hands him a new pad.
ADOLF

Here. Write this: Fire fascinates Hitler. It

consumes without accepting or rejecting.
He stares at Freud, daring him to analyze it and write.
39 OVER BLACK: FAINT, DISTANT SCREAMS.
SERIES OF SHOTS DISSOLVE THROUGH: Black and white images of
abstract body forms that begin to evoke death. Hitler's image in
a warped mirror: grotesque. Ominous images of huge gears
grinding together, dragging stills from "Triumph of the Will"
into the machinery.

FADE TO BLACK

40 A MIRROR - ADOLF EXAMINING HIS TEETH

He pulls his lip down, examines his front teeth. He rubs them
with his finger as if trying to scrub something off.

42 ON THE CELL SCREEN - HITLER RIDING IN A CAR
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.30

CELL SCREEN: Hitler riding in parades, past Hitler Youth,
hysterical women. (We HEAR Adolf and Goebbels OFF SCREEN).

ADOLF (V.0.)
Goebbels, did you write this speech?

GOEBBELS (V.O. )
Mmmm...

ADOLF (V.0.)
"To be allowed to be Adolf Hitler's mason,
carpenter and lowliest day laborer is a gift
of heaven."

GOEBBELS (V.O. )
I always avoided exaggeration.

ADOLF (V.0.)
Ah, listen... From one of your speeches: "In
the personality of Hitler, a million-fold
longing of the German people has become

reality..." What a thrill to play
Fuhrer. For twelve years, the supreme father
figure.

GOEBBELS (V.O. )
A role to surpass even Lohengrin.

By the end of the montage, Hitler's image is enlarged to the
point of extreme graininess, and slowed to almost a freeze.

DISSOLVE TO:

41 TWO BLONDE CHILDREN ARE TRANSFIXED BY SOMETHING OFF
SCREEN

ADOLF (0.S.)
Read the last sentence back to me.

TYPIST (0.S.)
"We made the sound so overwhelming, the
attitude so certain, the level of force so
high, the spectacle so grand, that no one
could see anything at the center but the
symbolism."

REVEAL: A third child, his head, nose, etc., being measured by
adult hands, using scientific calipers.

ADOLF (0.S.)
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.31

Yes, good. The symbolism at the center...
TILT TO DISCOVER: Adolf is the adult doing the measuring.

ADOLF
Like the sun. No one could look at me
without the pain and punishment of blindness.

Number two: The receptivity of the masses is
unlimited, yet their understanding is feeble.
They quickly forget.

Three: The masses tell each other small lies.
It would never come into their heads to
construct colossal tales. Thus the bold myths
work best.

Four: Effective propaganda must be confined
to stereotypes. Always focus

people's attention on a single foe. To have
multiple enemies confuses people.

My genius was the combining of two enemies --
Jews and Marxism -- into one:

Jewish Marxism. A synthesis that was key to
my success.

Weave this in: Crude simplifications,
endlessly repeated will influence the supple
-- Goebbels' realm. For the non-supple, the
stubborn, terror is necessary -- Himmler's
responsibility.

The typist glances up at mention of the SS leader.

43 A GIRL-CHILD'S HAND REACHES FOR ADOLF'S

The BAVARIAN GIRL is six years old, blonde, dressed in folk-
Bavarian clothing. On the other side of Adolf is a nine-year-old
BAVARIAN BOY. He leads them by the hand away from us.

The view is diffused, dreamy. The sounds of an off-screen PARADE
drown out the children's voices.

Adolf lifts the little girl to see Germania, the model city.

ADOLF
This was to be built for you.

She reacts. The nine-year old plays with toy soldiers from the
checkpoint gates.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.32

The children run off. We follow them until they exit frame.

We PUSH slowly toward the wall to discover reddish water seeping
in at the floor-wall seam, then up along the wall's surface past
a vague outline of human ribs just below the plaster of the wall,
past a wall-painting of a half-man, half beast (inspired by Von
Stuck), then further along the wall...

ARRIVE AT:
44 THE CELL SCREEN
BLONDE CHILDREN, AT PLAY AND AT WORK, LOYAL TO THE PARTY.

ADOLF (watching)
We bred blondes.

ADOLF.... leans near the opening in the wall, watching. The
sight of the children seems painful to him.

We watch through Adolf's eyes: more images of the innocent young
Germans, the future. Sadness wells up in him.
The newsreel footage ends.

The light reflecting back on Adolf flickers dimly, then goes out,
leaving him only in the bluish light from the opening in the
wall. He moves closer to it, seems to address someone on the
other side of the wall, conspiratorially.

ADOLF
What will they think of us?....
History... those who study our lives? Will we

be judged by what we say, by our deeds, by

the monuments and images we leave behind...?
(pauses to think)

...0r something else? Something we can't

control?

This is an unsettling thought: Not to be in control.

The JAILER appears, his stick rattling along the surface of the
cell, past the opening in the wall, whose light has suddenly
extinguished. Adolf is now across the room.

CLOSE ON THE JAILER: His face, oblong, fills the frame.

MATCH DISSOLVE TO:
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.33

45 NEGATIVE IMAGE OF A LARGE REEL OF FILM

Turning on the projector's front spindle.
DISSOLVE TO the positive-image version of the shot.

ON THE CELL-SCREEN

Crowds at a rally, people waving, reaching, crying...
Then Hitler (Feb 10, 1933) looking awkward before a speech.

ADOLF (0.S.)
It would never occur to people that I am shy.

He continues to wait awkwardly before speaking. But then more
adoring crowds, which fuel him as a speaker. Back and forth
between crowds encouraging him, to bigger and bigger moments as a
speaker -- the crowds pushing the man instead of the other way
around.

Later in the same (or another) speech, his arm is out, his
fingers are shaking. The CAMERA suddenly jumps from his face down
his arm to his two shaking fingers. Huge ROARS of crowds.

Adolf beams, prideful. Then deflates for a moment. Reflects.
It's never enough. It doesn't satisfy his boundless hunger.

FLASH CUT TO: Adolf's hand, his sleeve rolled up, his fist
clenching and unclenching. The nurse's hands bring the
hypodermic needle close to a vein (to inject a drug).

WAGNERIAN CHORUSES -- singing his praises -- accompany the images
on the cell-screen.

ON ADOLF

Light from the screen, from the admiration of the crowds, bathes
his face. Adolf walks into the beam, lifts his arms, closes his
eyes, turns his body slowly in the warmth.

Adolf sits into his chair, still vaguely unsatisfied.

A woman's hand slides into frame, caresses his cheek, shoulder,
neck... EVA. His hand touches her, warmly, acknowledging.
(Read: "Keep touching me. Be here for me.")

From the crowds on the screen. Great CHEERS.

EVA (0.S.)
They adored you.

ADOLF
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.34

They were stupefied by the Fuhrer cult.

ON THE CELL-SCREEN: The crowds are now hysterical in their
efforts to pay homage to Hitler. Men cheer, salute. Women cry,
throw flowers, reach out to him.

ADOLF
So hungry for me... as if I could fill their
emptiness...

But his own emptiness is vast. Still trying to sate himself, he
repeats the footage without the sound, and in slow motion.

EVA
By feeding them hope, you stimulated their
craving.
ADOLF
(trying to go with it)
Yes... The desire to be the desired object.
EVA

For women, you were the ideal lover.
The perfect father.

ADOLF
Fleeting. The thrill quickly loses its
impact.
(turns to Eva)
You were the one thing... that brought me
peace.

IN THE CELL, Adolf gestures for her to kneel beside him.
He gestures for her to let her hair down. She picks up a mirror.

ON THE CELL-SCREEN: Eva at her most playful.

IN THE CELL, Adolf glances at her. We see that the mirror she's
using has two sides (one is a magnifying mirror). He's distracted
by his own reflection, slightly magnified, covering most of her
face.

PUSH IN to the mirror, with part of Eva visible behind it.
LAUGHTER comes up on the sound track.

DISSOLVE TO: reflections of Eva and Adolf in warped carnival
mirrors. Huge elongated head, tiny dwarf-like body. Then long,
long skinny body. Then tiny head. Back and forth.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.35

The laughter builds to a point. They get caught up. But then
the voices and laughter begin to distort, the mood changes. The
faces become less funny, more grotesque, revolting.

DISSOLVE BACK TO: Adolf's reflection in Eva's mirror.
Upset by the fantasy, Adolf pushes the mirror away.

ADOLF
I told you to destroy that footage...

EVA
What footage?

She looks up at the screen.

EVA
What's wrong?

Exasperated, Adolf strides to the projector, rewinds it, then
runs it backwards in slow motion. Eva reacts.

EVA
I took care of most of it.

ADOLF
Look!
(points at the screen)
You don't understand!

At the projector, he winds off the offending footage, finds where
it begins and ends by holding it up to the light, then tears it
out. He rolls up this piece of embarrassing footage, puts it in
the front pocket of his pants.

He splices the film on the reels, sits back down, and re-watches
the section, now edited.

The sequence is followed by shots of Hitler in the home movies
looking exalted.

IN THE CELL: Close on Eva, head down, eyes looking up to the
screen. Adolf's hand enters the frame, pets Eva's hair. He's
forgiven her.

DISSOLVE TO:
46 EVA AND ADOLF IN BED

Adolf is still wearing his uniform. Eva lies on her back,
listening to him. He absentmindedly pets her hair.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.36

ADOLF
What I hated most about the war was fighting
the English. The fair Brits, our racial
brothers, our natural allies. Saxons.
Anglos. The very word means angels, doesn't
it?

ON THE CELL SCREEN, in the background: Stonehenge. From both the
air, and from low on the ground.

EVA
It's a tranquil image. All the Germanic
peoples coming together.

IN THE CELL: Eva touches his face, stroking his arms. Adolf
doesn't pay attention.

ADOLF
The traitor Churchill never told his
countrymen that I offered an alliance, a
union of racial brothers, and protection of
the British Empire.

She unbuttons his uniform shirt, puts her hand inside his shirt.
She slowly gains his attention.

Adolf pulls the blouse off her shoulder, strokes her white skin,
explores the surfaces and creases of her skin.

His hand pushes her blouse further down, revealing her lace-
covered breast. He is aroused, but seems awkward, incapable of
closing the distance... To connect deeply, meaningfully.

The compositions of her body become formal, isolated, fragmented.
The MUSIC changes from melodic to odd.

HER BLONDE HAIR

He pulls her hair towards his cheek, rubs his own skin with it.
He lays it over his other hand, studies it against his skin...
He becomes narcissistically and obsessively absorbed in the
relationship of blondeness to his hand.

EVA
Wolfie...

PUSH IN CLOSE ON ADOLF'S FACE. He registers no awareness of her
call. His expression is vacuous, detached.

He turns away from Eva, away from us.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.37

EVA (soft, far away)
Wolfie?

ON ADOLF'S FACE. As her hand slips off and away, we drift around
to profile. He gazes off at:

47 A YOUNG BLONDE WOMAN IN A WHITE LIMBO SPACE, HER BACK TO US

She's wearing a white summer dress and a summer bonnet.
Her long hair is in braids that fall down her back.

ADOLF
on the edge of the bed moves upward through the frame.

We DOLLY with him as he walks toward the young woman,
anticipation on his face.

We move with him as he circles her, revealing that beyond her
there are one... two... ten more BLONDE YOUNG WOMEN, similarly
dressed, waiting. Each woman stands in a different subtle pose,
innocent, yet alluring and sensual. Robust.

CELL-SCREEN: Barely noticeable in the background, are
abstractions of men goose-stepping, standing at attention (all
the images are extremely masculine).

IN THE CELL: Very CLOSE on Adolf as he weaves through the women.
He brushes against them purposely, also unavoidably. We lose
track of which woman he is touching; they are interchangeable.

THE MOOD OF THE SCENE CHANGES

ADOLF'S FACE becomes alive with arousal, but also distraction, as
he seems to be looking ahead, past each woman he encounters.
Hungry. Insatiable. He would like to have them all, but can't
connect with even one of them.

The young women suddenly seem older, more mature, "less
innocent". Their faces are made up. The necklines of their
dresses, which now are satiny like evening gowns, have plunged to
reveal more skin. Braided hair is replaced with evening
coiffures. Long white gloves, white high-heeled shoes, and white
hats with thin white veils attached. Their faces are also more
pale, more tired, empty, less full of life.

We reveal that Adolf is now shirtless. His aged skin is pale and
loose, splotched with graying hair.

ADOLF (commands)
Closer.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.38

They respond, close in around him.

HIGH ANGLE (OVERHEAD): He closes his eyes, and forces himself
through them like a cell among other cells on a two-dimensional
slide.

CLOSE ANGLES of his body parts rubbing against their body parts.

We DISSOLVE THROUGH CLOSE SHOTS emphasizing contact... hips
brush hips... arms against breasts... He touches the skin behind
their knees... the curve between the hips and the waist... the
shoulder/collarbone... the space between the breasts... the curve
between the back and the buttocks.

His boots step on their shiny pumps, his legs are in a forest of
long white feminine legs. Partly titillating, partly
overwhelming. His hands move through their lush blonde hair.

Their hands drift toward the center... touching Adolf's face and
body.

TIGHT ON ADOLF: He's surrounded by blondeness, womanness. The
women seem to become lifeless, empty, sterile. One is wearing a
white half-mask. Adolf turns, and sees:

48 A PALE BLONDE WOMAN

Floating under water in an aquarium, a white diaphanous gown
swirling around her. Her blonde hair floats in the water.

She looks towards Adolf, beckoning.

ADOLF is all alone in the space, now. He takes a step towards the
woman in the aquarium. The frame WHITES OUT.

49 FADE IN: A HAND HELD MIRROR

Reflects short blond hair. We follow with the mirror as it moves
around the head. We see hair, forehead, blond eyebrows.

A hand presses the fake blond eyebrows into better position.

The mirror extends out to reveal Adolf. His mustache is also
blond. His face has become more pale.

He adjusts the blond wig, cut as his own hair. He pushes his
hands through it in his characteristic way, pressing it into
place. The effect is odd, surreal.

He turns to appreciate the full effect in the large mirror a few
feet away. Then tries some of the gestures we saw him rehearse
earlier.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.39

ADOLF
...think of Volk and Reich, our great
nation...

He studies himself. Ponders the implications.
50 WHITE DISSOLVES TO GRAINS OF SAND

SERIES OF SHOTS: In negative, a woman's hair is pulled up through
the sand.

An, ODD-LOOKING MAN looks up and smiles. Chunks of plaster
falling through the light from the opening in the wall. Red
liquid puddles on a floor, among bits of broken glass.

51  ADOLF LIFTS UP A STONE FROM A LEDGE, NEAR THE OPENING

(Note: He's no longer blond.) In the hole beneath the stone is
an old metal box (like a WWI ammo box) labeled with runic
letters. He pulls it up and carries it to the steps near the
opening, sits and opens the box. Adolf glances sideways,
nervously reaches into his pocket and pulls out the rolled-up
film segment of his "jig" and drops it in the box.

He again glances around to be sure he's alone, then sifts through
objects in the box.

He re-discovers old family photos, negatives, occultish objects,
and a few more rolled up pieces of film. He finds a piece of
paper, begins to unfold it.

ON THE PAPER: It's a receipt from "The Feingold Gallery" - with
Hitler's name on it. He speaks as if to the opening (not to the
Typist).

ADOLF
(much of it off screen)
When I was homeless during a cold Vienna
winter, a Jewish art merchant gave me an
overcoat. I even had a Jewish friend at the
men's shelter with whom I spent many pleasant
afternoons....

Maybe there would have been an advantage in
not exterminating the Jews....

(pauses)
For a long time we considered a territorial
solution. We would put them in reservations
or ship them to Madagascar.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.40

In fact, we encouraged mass emigration.
Eichman's assignment in the 30's was to find
places to move them to, but few countries
would take more than a handful.

Someone even proposed a mass sterilization
plan.

He hesitates, then begins to re-fold the piece of paper.

ADOLF (shakes his head)
....an ugly necessity.

52 A PAGE TURNS QUICKLY
It's a photo album. A school class photo, out of focus.

A magnifying glass enters, enlarges the images, focussing onto:
Hitler at age ten, his arms crossed, posturing.

REVERSE ANGLE: ADOLF'S SEARCHING EYE
magnified by the thick glass. The eye probes.

ADOLF (anxious)
Let's finish this section...

TYPIST (reading)
"Enigma, carefully manipulated, enhances
one's power and fame."

ADOLF
Make that power, fame and immortality. For
example, never will they discover written
authorization from me concerning the special
treatment of the Jews.
This simple missing link will intrigue
scholars for generations. Hitler
scholars.....

PUSH IN to the photo. To Hitler as a child.

ADOLF
Obfuscation keeps people guessing. The
little feints, the ambiguities,
contradictions... The surprises.....
Paragraph.

ON THE CELL SCREEN behind Hitler, enigmatic shots of Hitler,
especially from stills, and random, unrelated images.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.41

ADOLF
My first four years as head of the Nazi
party, I forbade photos to be taken of me.

There were things about myself that were best
kept out of the public eye.

To my surprise, the efforts to keep these
things hidden created a cloak of enigma.
People want to know. They talk. They were
kept on edge.

ANOTHER PAGE FLIPS: Again, the glass draws us to Hitler, age ten,
this time set off from the other children. A hurt

look on his face. PUSH IN closer and closer, all the way to THE
GRAIN.

Through the magnifying glass, the big EYE GAZES... BLINKS

CLOSER on the child's face. Clearly troubled.

ADOLF
We better ex out the last section.
TYPIST
You mean starting with the line
"obfuscations".

Hitler gets up, walks over to the table near his bed. We see the
photo of him next to the photo of his mom.

ADOLF
No, no... Starting with: "There were things
about me that I am not comfortable with..."

TYPIST
With respect, Mein Fuhrer ... What would you
need to hide?

The Typist's tone is a bit more probing than we've heard from the
Typist, but Adolf's mind is on the photos.

ADOLF
No sense stimulating interest in the vicious
lies about my family.

When we cut to his POV, the photo is now of him as a child. HOLD
on that, until his fingers begin to slide the photo out of the
frame. Behind it is revealed another photo (his father). Before
it can be totally revealed, we
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.42

QUICK DISSOLVE TO:
53 ADOLF'S FACE - ENRAGED

ADOLF (screaming)
GET OUT! GET OUT!

The angle jumps down his arm, to his hand, his two fingers
shaking (as before), pointing off screen.

HIS POV: The Jailer is just visible in the shadows.
ADOLF
YOU'LL GET NOTHING FROM ME! NO MERCY. YOU
TELL THEM HITLER HAS ICE IN HIS VEINS! ICE!!

Adolf turns and KICKS the wood stove's door closed.
SPARKS fly up.

Adolf calmly turns to someone off screen. He whispers.

ADOLF
I'm the greatest actor in Europe.

REVEAL: He's speaking to Goering, who's wearing another
outlandish uniform. Goering nods; he's heard it before.

ADOLF
I'm the greatest actor in Europe.

When he's satisfied with the effect, he lets himself go "out of
character."

He strides over to the Typist, who's poised to resume typing.

54 MOVE ACROSS ARYAN LOOKING SS SOLDIERS, GET TO HIMMLER
Goebbels steps up to the screen. When Himmler moves across the
screen, Goebbels limps in the cell with him, towards us. We dolly
back, keeping them both in a two shot. They stop, Goebbels turns,
looks off screen.

GOEBBELS
Look at Himmler.

ADOLF (0.S.)
You're no Clark Gable, yourself, Goebbels.

ON THE SCREEN: Himmler salutes to someone.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.43

IN THE CELL: Adolf absentmindedly salutes back.
ON THE SCREEN: The image slows artificially.

ADOLF
Himmler looked like a weasel.

GOEBBELS
Making our enemies look bad was often easier
than making us...

ADOLF (cuts him off)
The perfect Aryan Superman. A weak stomach in
the presence of violence.
(pause)
Heinrich Himmler...

He shakes his head. Then walks over to the projector, freezes
the film on a close-up of Himmler.

ADOLF
Didn't anyone notice?

GOEBBELS
He was ruthless, but not careless.
And Hitler-loyal. Who better to run
the SS?

Adolf shakes his head in astonishment.

ADOLF

Art must be plausible.

(beat)
If you wrote a script about Aryan superiority
and cast Himmler, people would laugh, walk
out of the theatre.
But in real life, Himmler runs an Aryan
superiority organization and it plays.

GOEBBELS
On the political stage, you can do anything.

ADOLF
Let's put up another reel.

Adolf reaches for more film.

GOEBBELS
Images to blur facts.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.44
He SNAPS the film gate shut. ON THE CELL-SCREEN: Film leader,
some sort of countdown sequence... three, two, one...

55 ON THE CELL SCREEN: HITLER SLAPS HIS KNEE
TRIUMPHANTLY

Just after invading France.
IN THE CELL
Adolf flips through a stack of magazines. Stops at one.

ADOLF
They made me man of the year.

GOERING
What?

Adolf holds up the magazine (we only get a glance).

ADOLF
Time Magazine. They made me man of the
year... I was on the cover of six issues.

(lays the stack on the table -- we

see him on the cover)
I conquered Poland, Norway, Denmark, France.
Americans love a winner. Of course it mean's
nothing. They made Roosevelt Man of the Year
three times.

GOERING
And he was a cripple.

They both laugh out loud.
56 TWO YOUNG BLONDE CHILDREN PLAY WITH BLOCKS

They're completely absorbed in their play, completely innocent.
After a few moments, they run to...

ADOLF, who lets them swarm over him.

ADOLF (V.0.)
I dressed a nation in costumes and we played
cowboys and Indians. Anyone who takes all
this too seriously has no sense of the
absurd.

57 HANDS TUG ON A BOOT ENTHUSIASTICALLY
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.45

We see that the other boot is already on (we stay on the boots
throughout the scene). The boots, which come up to just below the
knees, "stand" and begin to walk.

ADOLF (0.S.)
Next section:

Off screen, we hear the Typist typing...
ADOLF (0.S.)

Number one: Only a charismatic leader could
heal the wounds of the great war inflicted on
us by the November criminals.
Number two: Hitler's charisma was as much
created by the German masses as it was
imposed upon them.
Number three: In peacetime, stability and

routine undermine charisma. In war time, the
great threat is defeat.

We come up to a riding crop in his hands, which he flicks. He
exits frame. We hold for a beat on liquid that has seeped into
the cell through cracks where the wall joins the floor.
CUT BACK TO: THE BOOTS, PACING
ADOLF (0.S.)

Number four: It was the failure of the will

of the German people that fatally undermined

my charisma.

Number five...

The boots hold still for a minute. He can't finish. He turns and
walks straight away from camera, off into blackness.

58 ON ADOLF, HIS BACK TO US
He hears a woman laugh, turns toward us.
HIS POV: The mirror. His reflection only partly captured in it.

The WOMAN IN BLACK appears from behind the mirror, steps in front
of it, replacing Adolf's reflection.

His jaw tenses, eyes narrow.

She smiles, lifts the ceremonial dagger into frame, the grip end
toward Adolf, the blade in her palm. Another offering.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.46

This time, after a few moments of hesitation, Adolf slowly
reaches for it. As he does, he realizes he's reaching for a
reflection of the dagger. She moves the real one out of reach,
and LAUGHS.

FLASHES OF LIGHT unnaturally white out her face.

59 ON THE CELL SCREEN: THREE FLASH-EXPLOSIONS ON THE SCREEN
Anti-aircraft explosions against the night.

HOLD IN BLACK, then slowly fade up to:

60 ADOLF ON THE FAR EDGE OF FRAME, GAZING INTO A MIRROR

We hear on the sound track the MUSICAL THEME associated with the
twelve blonde women. Adolf reacts.

A BLONDE WOMAN appears on the other side of our frame, walking
towards Adolf in the reflection. (as Eva did when she appeared
earlier).

As the woman approaches, she becomes brighter and brighter. She
begins to unclasp and unzip the front of her dress; she spreads
the top of the dress apart, revealing skin.

She passes Adolf, and stops between him and the mirror. They're
both facing the glass.

HIS POV: She continues to reveal skin, enticingly, but something
is very odd about her.

CLOSE ON ADOLF'S HAND: As Adolf reaches around to touch the
revealed skin, her hand embraces his.

He notices with alarm that the skin is hairy, masculine. (she is
a female impersonator)

FLASHES OF LIGHT (from the screen, off camera) white her out,
garishly.

CLOSE: the blonde. Adolf's suspicions are confirmed.

Adolf struggles to zip the dress up; the blonde resists. But he
succeeds in keeping her covered. Female.

60A = SKIN AND WATER

Adolf scours his hands under the faucet at the sink. Adolf hears
DOGS BARKING, glances sideways.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.47

The Jailer watches suspiciously from the shadows.
61 SLOW MOTION: TWO GLOVES SLAM ONTO A TABLE (BG: CELL SCREEN)

Dust flies, sound echoes. Adolf's hand enters our frame, picks up
one of the gloves.

SOUNDS: (in echo) German shepherds BARKING as they attack. People
YELLING and SCREAMING as they are rounded up.

Adolf begins to put on the glove.

ADOLF
You take an ordinary man...

The Typist types. Very slowly, with great care, Adolf stretches
the glove over his hand. He reaches for the other.

ADOLF
...dress him in a uniform...

He squeezes both hands against each other. The camera follows as
he reaches for the riding crop on its hook.

ADOLF (cont'd)
(off cell-screen)
...and that man will commit acts he would
have never before imagined.

He slides the riding crop in his hand from the base to the tip.
Slaps it into his palm.

He puts on a formal military hat with a short brim that shadows
his eyes.

WIDER: Adolf assumes a pose of command, then glances over his
shoulder at the unseen typist.

ADOLF
You can turn a runny-nosed, bed-wetter into a
ruthless warrior.

PUSH IN TO HIS FACE: He looks forward again, confident, a man of
steel, the ruthless warrior. But it's a pose that cannot be
sustained. FIRELIGHT flickers on the side of his face.

62 ADOLF STANDS NEAR THE MIRROR, BEGUILED, TRANSFIXED

He breathes deeply to calm himself. He hitches up his belt,
reasserting his masculinity.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.48

The Woman in Black approaches from across the room.

Unnerved, Adolf SNAPS to a position of authority, CLICKING HIS
HEELS together, jerking his arm up and out. The camera starts
high, looking down on him, then slowly BOOMS down and circles
part way around, until he stands above us, statue-like, filling
the frame, his arm diagonal across the image.

The Woman continues her approach.

He SLAPS his thigh with his free hand, demanding her
obedience. She remains unimpressed, and walks under his
outstretched hand.

Now, his rigid arm disappears into darkness, three or four inches
from his shoulder (appears cut off, emasculated).

Adolf can't hold his arm up much longer. He sweats, straining
with effort.

Finally, he lowers his hand, clasps it with the other in front of
his crotch.

DISSOLVE TO:
63 ON THE CELL SCREEN

We see Hitler in front of a huge crowd at an indoor arena.
He waits unusually long for the crowd to calm down.

ADOLF (V.0.)
Enough talk, Freud....

Watch how I use my nervous energy to subdue
and control the crowd...

CELL SCREEN: Hitler nervously positions a table near the
microphone.

ADOLF (V.0.)
Every thing I do here is entirely
calculated...

FREUD (V.0.)
Mmmmmm... .

CELL SCREEN: He takes an unusual amount of time standing in front
of the crowd without speaking.

ADOLF (V.0.)
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.49

The crowd is a hesitant female.

CELL SCREEN: He keeps the crowd waiting to build tension, gather
power over them.

ADOLF (V.O.)
Their bodies and souls await penetration.

Something blocks the image.
64 CUT TO: BRIGHT LIGHT, BLOCKED BY A HAND AND CLOTH

It's Adolf cleaning the front of the lens with a piece of lacy
cloth. The color from the images illuminates the cloth.

ADOLF (0.S.)
Isn't desire the great motor of life?

We dolly back with Adolf, discover Freud sitting in the
foreground, watching the screen.

CELL SCREEN: Eva in home movies: in the water, at waterfalls,
doing exercises, gymnastics. Adolf paces back and forth across
the images.

FREUD
Where does morality fit?

ADOLF
Decay, diminishment, slander. The beginning
of the end.

FREUD

Annihilation of self. So, for you, what
redeems life?

ADOLF
The purely artistic. Read Nietzsche.

FREUD
But what of the spiritual dimension?

ADOLF
To be a creative artist, one inevitably walks
the spiritual path. In fact, they are the
same path.

FREUD
Ah... good, good. But there is more to
understand, Adolf. So many died...
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.50
ADOLF
Stop! Conscience is the Jewish invention.
For National Socialists, action follows
thought as quickly as thunder follows
lightning.
SERIES OF SHOTS: Hot coals, fire moving along a surface.

65 AN L-SHAPED SLIVER OF LIGHT UNDER A DOOR (NIGHTMARE
SPACE)

SOUNDS: A heavy man marching up stairs, out of view.
IN THE CELL, the sounds frighten Adolf.

NIGHTMARE: The heavy footsteps stop right outside the door. The
door slowly opens.

IN THE CELL: Adolf watches, tense with fear.

NIGHTMARE: Silhouetted in the doorway is a huge, puffy-faced,
barrel-chested man, wearing a civil servant's uniform from the
1880's. Smoke rises from a pipe in his hand. The man steps toward
us, and towers over Adolf, threatening.

LOOKING DOWN AT ADOLF

Adolf cowers, anticipating a blow.

Close on the riding crop as it rises through the air. (in the
foreground: the swastika on Adolf's arm, so we know it's Adolf).
He raises this short whip.

It glides in slow motion through the air, SLAPS hard against the
outside of Adolf's thigh.

In negative, a burning apartment building crumbles. Heard in the
distance: THUNDEROUS CONCUSSIONS.

ON ADOLF: The fear has been denied, but it slowly overtakes him
again. The CAMERA DRIFTS UP, looking down on him. He's small,
cowering. HIS EYES WIDEN.

A CONCUSSION, low, deep THUD -- an enormous bomb EXPLODING far
away.

66 A FLASH OF WHITE, FOLLOWED BY BLACKNESS

Over black, the sound of more BOMBS exploding.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.51

SERIES OF OTHER IMAGES: The twisted, red face of a man froma
painting by Otto Dix. A holder with eight test tubes full of
blood, light sparkling through them. Next to them, in their
Slots, eight more empty test tubes.

67 OMITTED
68 THREE BLONDE CHILDREN INTERACT
With Adolf. He seems playful, spontaneous, kind.

Adolf watches them, inspired by them, moved.
He's dressed in his white Nazi uniform.

ADOLF (V.O.)
In World War One, I was a messenger.
I never killed anyone.

There's a FLASH. The image "freezes" into a photograph: Hitler

posed with children. FADE TO BLACK. Fade up on Hitler moving
with the children again. The cycle repeats with each claim.

ADOLF (V.O.)
I am a vegetarian. I never eat dead animals.

FLASH - FREEZE FRAME. Fade to black, then back to Adolf.
ADOLF (V.0.)
I loathe big game hunters.
A gruesome blood bath.
FLASH - FREEZE FRAME. Fade to black, then back to Adolf.
ADOLF (V.O.)
I would not allow smoking in my presence. We
outlawed tobacco advertising.
FLASH - FREEZE FRAME. Fade to black, then back to Adolf.

ADOLF (V.0.)
The health of the body is of supreme
spiritual value.

FLASH - FREEZE FRAME. Fade to black, then back to Adolf.
ADOLF (V.O.)
I insisted on the humane treatment of pets
and farm animals.

FLASH - FREEZE FRAME. Fade to black, then back to Adolf.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.52

ADOLF (V.O.)
I even issued a decree regulating the cooking
of lobsters to minimize their suffering.

Fade to black, then back to Adolf. Adolf has again pumped
himself up with his affirmations.

ADOLF (V.O.)
I reduced chemicals in fruits and vegetables.
The SS planted organic gardens.

ADOLF
(this one on screen)
I am not a brutal man by nature.

FLASH - FREEZE FRAME
69 FREUD, DEAD-STILL, FACING STRAIGHT AHEAD

Adolf appears behind Freud, hands him the photos from the kinder
photo session (above). He whispers, sinister.

ADOLF
Think of us National Socialists as gardeners.
We cultivated the flowers and plucked out the
weeds.

70 THE SEVEN HITLER YOUTH SIT FOCUSED ON ADOLF AS HE
SPEAKS

We see the boys first, in profile. We dolly to the girls, boom
down to the level of their hands.

ON THE SCREEN: Dynamic images from Triumph of the Will.
Adolf walks in front of the screen.

ADOLF
We preferred the spoken to the written word.
More so, symbols to any kind of words. And
above all, pageantry, spectacle and music. We
wrapped all this in solemn ritual to create
vibrant and dynamic images.

The screen images transition to images that emphasize the black-
uniformed and black-helmeted SS.

ADOLF
I mobilized an entire nation to create my
art. And while I love opera, and
architecture, my true passion is film.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.53

Rethink the Hitler Era in artistic terms.

People thought I choreographed the 1934
Nuremberg Rally to make the documentary
"Triumph of the Will". The critics lack the
imagination to see that I orchestrated world
War Two for the same reasons.

The invasion of countries. Mobilization of
millions of extras to create the most
magnificent and historic film footage.

Footage delivered nightly from the front by
courier for my personal review.

We MOVE along behind the children, watching Hitler address them.

ADOLF
So my sons and daughters, take guidance from
the arts. To write a best seller, or stira
nation: Simplify.

Your hero must have no fears and your villain
no need for affection.

The fair maiden must be blonde, and the
villain must wear dark clothing and a
mustache.

Lost in the thought, Adolf walks in front of the girls.

He stops before one of the girls, picks up her hand, inspects it
for cleanliness, then puts it back down in her lap.

ADOLF
Life is ambiguous. None of us can stand
ambiguity. Me, most of all.

If you told the truth, both the teller and
the listener would go insane.

71 ON THE CELL SCREEN - HITLER AT THE EIFFEL TOWER

We hear the TYPIST hurrying to keep up with something Adolf has
just said. He is poised mid-thought.

ADOLF
Stop...
(the Typists stops)
I must rethink this... If I'd stopped with
the conquest of France, I would have gone
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.54

down in history as the greatest conqueror
since Alexander the Great...

No, no, no... "The greatest military genius
in history".

Wait, what do you think... Well, no... Ah!
Here it is: "Greatest empire since Caesar."
That... That's it...: Let's make it "if I had
I stopped with the conquest of France, I
would have built the greatest sustained
empire since Caesar Augustus."

He turns to the CELL SCREEN behind him, watches the triumphant
ride through Berlin after taking France.

ADOLF
What drives the great leader beyond his
destiny?
Weakened by the sense of loss, he has to lean on a table.

72 FADE UP ON: BUILDINGS, NAZI ARCHITECTURE -
TWILIGHT

It's GERMANIA. Much of it in shadows and reddish low sunlight.
We move across the town, as if in an aerial shot. The PARADE
sounds continue.

LONG DISSOLVE TO:
72A NIGHT SHOTS OF BURNING BUILDING
THEN TO: AERIAL SHOT OF BOMBED-OUT GERMAN CITY
Miles and miles of gutted structures. Destruction. No life.

CLOSE ON THE TYPEWRITER'S KEYS

ADOLF (0.S.)
The war would have never started...

CLOSE on Hitler's lips.

ADOLF
...if it wasn't for the Jews.
(pause)
And their puppet, Churchill.

CUT OUT TO A WIDER SHOT: Adolf takes a pose, bent over, using a
ceremonial sword as a walking stick, and speaks like Churchill.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.55

ADOLF
"We will fight them on the landing strips, we
will fight them on the beaches, we will fight
them wherever the enemy does engage us..."
73 OMITTED (INCORPORATED INTO CONTINUOUS 72)
74 ARCHETYPAL STALIN IMAGES ON THE SCREEN
Stalin prepares for a radio speech in his office.
ADOLF (0.S.)
You little babushka... You were going to
invade me, but I invaded you first.

ANGLE: Adolf and Goebbels watch.

ADOLF
An engineer of souls.
GOEBBELS
What?
ADOLF

He called himself an engineer of souls.

GOEBBELS
Ridiculous concept.

ADOLF
I wish I had said it.

Goebbels yawns slightly, suppresses it. Hitler can't help
yawning himself, only he yawns much wider.

ADOLF
We must suppress yawning... And we must
eradicate the yawners.

Goebbels and Hitler share a mean smile. They continue studying
Stalin on the cell screen. After a few beats...

ADOLF
There, did you see that?

Adolf winds back, slows down the footage to show Stalin waving at
children marching by in Moscow.

ADOLF
He looked directly into the camera lens.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.56

GOEBBELS
Mmmm... A small error in the presentation.

ADOLF
No, no. Trivialities often go unnoticed....
I find them to be the best clues to a man's
character.

75 OMITTED
76 A STUDIO PORTRAIT OF HITLER IN HIS BROWN SHIRT UNIFORM

Hitler is posed looking directly into the lens. He is dull-
looking, lifeless. (start without mustache; then it fades in)

ADOLF (0.S.)
In every society there are pent up hatreds.
For example, in the United States, it's
against the blacks. In Russia, the
successful.

A politician must mobilize these hatreds.
Adolf ties the ribbon around the stack of sleeved photos.
ADOLF
Reason must be trained to think in historical
dimensions.
77 MOVE THROUGH BLACKNESS
We don't know we're moving until we find: ADOLF, lying
horizontal, seemingly floating in space. Thinking. We push up
to him slowly. When we're close...
ADOLF (to himself)
The lie that Jesus was a Jew....
It's impossible.

As we float past him in the shadows, we see that he's pinching at
his skin below his ear, as if to crush something under the skin.

DISSOLVE TO:
78 THE CELL WALL

Moisture seeps in through cracks where the wall meets the floor.
The liquid has a slight reddish tint to it.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.57
Dolly along the floor to discover a wooden mask, lying on the
floor. The mask is of Adolf's face, in a "silent scream".
DISSOLVE TO:
79 A LIGHT BEAM EMANATES FROM THE OPENING IN THE WALL
Adolf holds a photo negative of one of his portraits in the beam.

The negative casts odd patterns onto his face.
Adolf leans close to the opening.

ADOLF
Am I mad?
(waits for an answer)
Am I mad?

Adolf turns, looks almost into the lens.

VERY LONG DISSOLVE TO:
80 OMITTED
81 LOW ANGLE OF GRANDIOSE BUILDINGS IN THE MODEL OF A CITY
Our view scans the skyline, looking for the best composition.
This city is magnificent, splendid. The buildings are Albert
Speer's style: Classic forms gone extreme, tall columns, huge
domes. Enormous concrete icons: the swastika, the eagle.
We reveal that Adolf is looking through a small downward
periscope that allows him to see the skyline from the ground
level of his ideal city, Germania.
Finally, his view locks on a classic composition. Adolf is
pleased. But Goering's head dips into the frame, ruining the
composition.

Adolf angrily gestures for Goering to move. Adolf jams his eye
back against the eyepiece of the periscope.

ADOLF
If I hadn't been called into politics,
I would have been the great German architect.

When he doesn't hear Goering respond, he looks up, glaring.

GOERING
Yes, Fuhrer.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.58

Goering stares straight ahead. Adolf rises up, walks around him.
Goering's eyes dart nervously.

ADOLF
My tombstone should bear the inscription: "He
was the victim of his generals."

The invincible Luftwafe commanded by the
great General Goering.... humiliated by the
British air force! A swarm of mosquitoes.

GOERING
What about Dunkirk? Their army was cornered,
but you let them escape.

ADOLF (SCOWLS)
You may look Nordic, but you lack Nordic
spirit.

Goering almost replies, but Adolf silences him with a stare.
DISSOLVE TO:

82 OMITTED

83 END ON: ADOLF

ashen gray, standing with his arm out. He holds this salute for
an unnaturally long time.

ADOLF
Two solid hours... Like granite. Goering
despises me for it. That I have this power,
also astonishes me.

We drift around him to see that he is standing at the mirror,
watching himself strain. A smirk of pridefulness.

ADOLF
Only twice in my life have I been afflicted
by weakness: at the death of my Mother, and
at the betrayal of my Motherland.

FREUD (0.S.)
When I was growing up Germany was always
referred to as the fatherland.

ADOLF
Mmmmm. . .
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.59

Adolf's arm begins to quiver with fatigue. Sweat beads on his
forehead. The soft light is overpowered by a harsher light,
causing the wrinkles on Adolf's tired face to be more pronounced.

FREUD

walks around Adolf, close to him. He stops at the end of
Adolf's quivering arm.

FREUD
Is your will alone enough, Adolf?

Adolf concentrates on keeping his arm up. Freud is cool.

FREUD
Is your desire for power rooted in a feeling
of powerlessness?

Adolf continues to strain. (All but a few inches of his arm are
cut off by shadows, again "emasculated.")

FREUD
Perhaps one hears only the questions for
which one has answers.

ADOLF
For us Pagan German Nationalists, knowledge
comes to the Volk from a higher power.
Knowledge through blood.

At the limit of endurance, Adolf notices his Nazi arm band
hanging near the mirror. He glances at Freud to see if he is
watching, then calmly lowers his arm, moves to the arm band and
puts it on. Adolf gives Freud an indifferent half-salute, palm
up.

ON THE CELL SCREEN: A photograph of Adolf as a child on his
mother's knee.

ADOLF
(defensively)
When you assume absolute rule, a beast climbs
onto the throne with you.

CELL SCREEN: Dissolve to the father's image.

84 A METAL AND GLASS SYRINGE. THE PLUNGER COMES OUT, BLOOD
FLOWS
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.60

A nurse's finger enters frame. The needle is pulled out, replaced
with cotton. Adolf's finger presses on the cotton. He bends his
arm up.

LOW ANGLE ON ADOLF: with arm in foreground.

ADOLF
Hitler and German History...

ADOLF'S POV: The NURSE squirts the blood into a test tube. We
see her mostly from the back. (she's beautiful, Teutonic, one of
the eleven blondes, barely recognizable, with her hair ina
French twist).

ADOLF
Every philosopher, politician, poet,
composer, general. Each will be
viewed in light of my legacy. They are
precursors; threads woven into the tapestry
of the Hitler Era.

People will be drawn to my doings, as toa
fiery, multi-car wreck on the Autobahn.

I stole German History.

The nurse hands him the test tube of blood. He dips his little
finger into the blood, then touches it to his tongue.

He corks the test tube, holds the blood up to the light from the
opening in the wall. The light refracts onto his face.

ADOLF
Here's an additional idea: I have stolen
Germany's future. For generations, all of
German history will be viewed through the
lens ground by the accomplishments of the Era
of Adolf Hitler.

The nurse puts a cotton ball on the hole in his arm, folds his
arm up for him. He writes on the test tube's label himself,
hands it back to her.

ADOLF
Losing the war would not steal my singular
place in history.

She puts the test tube into a wooden holder where eight other
test-tubes already are stored. There are now seven empty tubes in
their slots.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.61

Adolf is slumped in the chair, close to falling asleep.
85 GLOWING EMBERS BEGIN TO TURN BLACK

SERIES OF OTHER IMAGES: Abstraction of a test-tube of blood just
as it shatters on the floor (in black and white).

A photo of a Hitler cave painting, projected onto smoke.

A detail image from Otto Dix's painting: "Sex Crimes."

86 A SHEET OF ICE - VAGUE IMAGES MOVE BEYOND IT

A swastika is embossed on the ice's surface.
Suddenly, "Thor's Hammer" STRIKES the glass, fracturing but not
shattering it. The fractures fan out like veins.

The images are now even more distorted, fragmented.
FADE TO BLACK. Over black....

ADOLF
The Jew is always within us; we can never get
rid of him

87 A GIANT SWASTIKA (B.G.: CELL SCREEN)

Hitler moves away, revealing that the swastika is on his arm. His
face is full of extreme bitterness. Seething.

ADOLF
Yes... I hated Vienna.
(he's pained to remember)
It was dark and cold. There was shit on the
street. Stray dogs...

FREUD
And Germany?

Freud is sitting opposite.

ADOLF
Young, blonde, alive. A fair maiden.
Austria was like an old, broken-down man.
An empire with no territories. Impotent, old
fool. All pretense and no substance. But
Germany... Bright, fresh, clean.

FREUD
Impotent?

ADOLF
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.62

What?

FREUD
You said impotent.

ADOLF
No, I did not.

FREUD
Hmmm .

Adolf stands, casually walks over and picks up a letter from the
bushel basket of letters, fidgets with it.

ADOLF
Austria had its day; an illegitimate marriage
with Hungary. An empire rotten to the core.
Czechs, Croatians... Slavs. Only the mating
of Austria with Germany could save her.

On the cell screen behind him: Footage of Hitler youth girls
doing choreographed exercise.

FREUD
You were born in Austria.

ADOLF
(picks up photo of his mother)
But my mother, she was an angel.
A true German. Skin as white as fresh-fallen
snow.

See Adolf's face over hers, reflected on the frame.

FREUD
And your father?

Adolf turns, looks at Freud. Freud strokes his mustache with his
thumb and forefinger, thoughtfully. Patient.

ADOLF
Why does the Oedipus complex provide deeper
insight into man's struggle than my racial
theories?

Freud does not respond.

ADOLF
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.63

You call yourself a doctor, a scientist, but
what proof do you have of your theories?

FREUD
Your confusion arises out of a common
misconception. Think of the Oedipus complex
as a metaphor, an allegory if you like, to
help explore our inner world.

ADOLF
A tool to help people understand.

FREUD
Yes. A technique to reveal deeper truths.

ADOLF
To help people feel better about themselves.

Freud watches Adolf pace, anticipating what he's getting at.

ADOLF
My ideology has helped the German people feel
better.

FREUD (nods)
By dividing the world between good and bad...
Maybe this is where you strayed from your
spiritual path.

Adolf stands over Freud now.

ADOLF
It is a law of nature. A man must put others
down to feel good about himself.

Freud is intimidated. Adolf smiles, walks away.

FREUD
So you explain the world using the symbolism
of ethnic conflict.

ADOLF
Race is everything... Upon the ancient
foundation of race, I forged religion,
science, magic and politics into a single
world view. I gave them something to believe
in. Someone to blame.

FREUD
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.64

Is it possible your enemy lies not without,
but within?

ADOLF
All you do is help people cope with the day-
to-day neurotic story line. You perpetuate a
bourgeois existence that offers no salvation.

FREUD
The aim of my work is to help people escape
their inner prisons and to reach their --

ADOLF (cuts him off)
My mythology captured the people's
imagination. The visionary will to create
mankind anew. A chariot for
transcendence...

He notices Freud staring, shaking his head subtly.

ADOLF
Besides, the roots of National Socialism are
hidden in secret places. It's beyond your
grasp.

Freud's reaction is ambiguous. But Hitler interprets it as
defeat. Satisfied, he sits and crosses his arms.

88 ADOLF'S HAND SKETCHES FACES ON PAPER

Behind him in the background, his self-portrait painting.

We realize that the dozen faces laid out on the paper are
categorized by race -- some Nordic, some clearly not.

One of the faces is a sketch of the Typist.

We hear TYPING, and CUT TO the Typist's fingers. They hurry to

record an earlier thought... then stop. We TILT UP to the Typist,
who seems frustrated with Adolf.

TYPIST
I typed the words, but I don't understand
them.

ADOLF

The German people were hopelessly fragmented
by wealth, class, education...

Adolf draws lines separating the faces on his sketch pads into
groups.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.65

ADOLF (continuing)
...country of origin, ancestry, nobility...
those kinds of issues.

He draws more lines, some intersecting. Then picks up a red pen
and begins to draw a red arc.

ADOLF
By uniting the Germans on the basis of blood,
we eliminated these differences.

We follow his red pen around the page, then pull back to reveal
that the lines he's been drawing form a swastika, now inside a
red circle. The Typist begins to get the meaning.

TYPIST
So if a man is from the lower middle class,
born outside Germany, lacking noble ancestry,
a high-school dropout perhaps... He would
hence forth feel included, not excluded?

Ignoring him, Adolf draws quick facial caricatures of non-Aryan
races outside the circle.

ADOLF
Exactly. To downplay the internal
differences, we focused on external
differences: Those of us with German blood
versus Jews, Slavs, Gypsies...

TYPIST
What about what we did with the German
mentally ill, the retarded... their German
heritage?

ADOLF

And the homosexuals. We needed to eliminate
the malformed, purge our bloodline of
impurities.

(builds to a fever pitch)
National Socialism was not a political party,
but a sacred crusade against those inimicable
to the pure Nordic super-race - a holy duty
to all born with Germanic blood in their
veins.

The Typist struggles to understand.
TYPIST

"Nordic Super Race..." The movement was
founded on the idea of an "Aryan" Super Race.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.66

After you secured power, you narrowed the
ideal. You forbade SS men from marrying
German women who weren't blonde. How was this
explained?

Adolf can't answer. He points insistently at the typewriter. The
Typist hesitates, then begins to type.

DISSOLVE TO:
89 CELL SCREEN: NORDIC LOOKING SOLDIERS IN STRIKING UNIFORMS

CUT TO: EXTREME CLOSE on GOERING'S MEDALS (closer than in scene
55). A drop of clear liquid drips onto them.

TILT to reveal that Goering's uniform is damp around the collar
and further up to reveal Goering's face, another drop of
perspiration ready to fall. Tense, Goering follows someone off
screen.

ADOLF (0.S.)
Uniforms arouse women.

ADOLF'S HANDS enter the shot, draping a ceremonial sash around

Goering's overly adorned chest. Goering watches -- steely,
masculine -- as he awaits his "torture."
ADOLF

First, women crave authority. And men who
will control them. Passivity is the central
female characteristic. It's nature's law.

The Typist sits poised to type, but he does not, until Adolf
turns and glares at him.

Adolf pulls a chair over to Goering, climbs on top of it and
bends down to place Goering's hat on his head.

DISSOLVE TO:
90 A BARE SHOULDER, WITH A BLACK SLIP STRAP
Black satiny fabric begins to slide down over it.
DOLLY BACK to reveal the Woman in Black, in the process of
dressing herself. Her arms raised high, pulling on a black

evening dress. She is strikingly sexual.

There is only a glimpse of her breast from the side. We DOLLY
around her as she arches her back. We follow the satiny gown down
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.67
her body. Her stockings are seamed and she wears black high-
heeled pumps.

At the end of the shot, we reveal Adolf, sitting at a table,
small in the distance, her calf in the foreground.

CLOSE ON: ADOLF. He shifts in his seat, frequently glances
sideways in the direction of the woman.

HIS POV: The Woman in Black walks slowly towards him, holding the
tip of her dagger pressed against the flat of her palm.

Her expression is intimidating, superior. Adolf weakens.

She stops near the table, standing above him, the dagger flashing
in her hand.

Slowly, she reaches past him, picks something up, lifts it in her
fist. She pours something from her fist over the dagger's shiny
blade. It's blood.

Adolf sees the end of a test-tube protruding from below her fist.
He GASPS slightly.

CUT AHEAD TO:
The dagger, now clean, is held in Hitler's hand, with the woman's
hand around his, controlling it. She stands above him. She
guides his hand, gliding the dagger tip down her cheek, along her
neck, along her collarbone, down between her breasts....
ADOLF'S EXPRESSION becomes one of shame; submission.

DISSOLVE TO:
90A STARS IN A NIGHT SKY

Pull back over the buildings of Germania in "moonlight", set
against the night backdrop.

ADOLF (prelapped)
We strove for the most extreme
intensification of possibilities.
We hear BOOTS ON PAVEMENT, crowds CHANTING.
91 CELL SCREEN: SS SOLDIERS GOOSE-STEP PAST CROWDS OF WOMEN.

Children in uniforms, standing at attention, in salute. Tanks,
trucks, artillery, in symmetrical arrangements.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.68

THE NAZIS AT NIGHT.
Torches march in the darkness, become choreographed ritual.

ADOLF
Disciplined spontaneity. We elevated passion
above reason.

IN THE CELL Adolf picks up pieces of broken mirror from a pile
on the table, lays them out in a mosaic pattern on a flat tray.

ADOLF (0.S.)
We rescued the German people from their drab,
predictable lives. We gave them a sense of
heroic belonging. A vision of victorious
triumph over evil.

SOUNDS FROM THE CELL SCREEN: Barking dogs. Whistles blowing.
People running, shouting. The Typist types.

ADOLF
A man will do anything so long as you take
him step by step. Break a shop window. Then
rough up a labor leader. Turn a neighborhood
into a ghetto. Shoot a man. Eliminate a
race.

The camera MOVES to an angle that puts Adolf's face in the
distorted reflection off the fragmented mosaic.

ADOLF
If you asked a civilized people to do this
last step first, it would be impossible....

On the paper being typed onto. Adolf's hand reaches in, grabs
it.
ADOLF
Give me that.
(he yanks it from the typewriter,

wads it up)
Let's start over.

CLOSE ON THE WOOD STOVE: He tosses it in.

CLOSE: The WHITE NURSE'S FINGERS push the plunger of a syringe,
whose needle is inserted into his arm... The drug enters his
blood.

ON THE CELL SCREEN: Images of idyllic "Volk". The light, heroic
tone is reset.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.69

ADOLF
Only as each order was followed with absolute
fidelity did I recognize the

ADOLF (cont'd)
possibilities. My mind leapt ahead to the
most extreme, fantastic scenarios.

But my advice is to go slow. Each desire
fulfilled must be followed by a somewhat
larger request, a slightly greater brutality.
Let the momentum build. Men comply.

ON THE CELL SCREEN: The images take on a metallic texture.

ADOLF
To my astonishment, I could experience the
sensation of absolute power.
The whole system functioned to obey my
commands. Each member of the armed forces
swore unconditional obedience to me. The
nation celebrated my birthday. Every German
schoolboy pledged:

"I swear to devote all my energies, all my
strength, to the savior of our country, Adolf
Hitler. I am willing and ready to give up my
life for him, so help me God. One Volk, one
Reich, one Fuhrer."

Dry, Adolf stops, drinks water, looks off. When he exits frame,
we see the Typist, sitting dutifully erect, typing.

ADOLF
A mere flicker of my imagination could be
transformed into a giant deed. Sketch a
museum, it is built. Envision new living
space, a country is invaded. When a hatred
matures, this group or that group... is
eliminated.

For others, it becomes...
(mockingly)
"...My job is. I will complete this on
time. I will perform with excellence. I am in
charge of this. My aim in life is..."
(returning to normal voice)
...no matter how harsh, extreme or murderous,
the resulting reality.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.70

CELL SCREEN: The images are oddly fragmented.

ADOLF stands near the projector. It's beam glances off the tray
of mirror fragments, then ricochets wildly toward the screen.

ADOLF
One can write new commandments.
Thou shalt kill.

92 A TORCH IS IN THE CELL

We move back as Adolf walks towards us with it, attaches it toa
flexible stand. It ROARS, its flame wildly animated. He adjusts
the position, for some off screen effect.

CUT TO: EIGHT CURVED LINES, FLOWING TO A CENTER

CLICK. The lines begin to rotate: It is a large fan. Adolf walks
past it.

We follow his feet to Eva, who is perched on a short pedestal,
draped in white cloth -- a classical Greek pose.

The camera lovingly explores her idealized form.
Adolf adjusts the folds of the material across her waist.

He hears WHISPERING from off screen. Adolf turns, sees the
silhouettes of two men - seemingly the Jailer and another man we
don't recognize - who sit in the shadows. He strains to hear
their words, but cannot.

At the Jailer's feet, Adolf notices the Jailer's club TAPPING on
the floor near his feet. The tip of the club is wrapped in barbed
wire, stained with blood. A GUARD DOG growls nearby.

CUT TO, EXTREMELY CLOSE: A brush dips into paint. It moves toward
the corner of a canvas, where we discover:

A GREEK GODDESS, in stone, positioned on a vast plain.

The face and body of the goddess are Eva's. Adolf stops, looks up
at Eva in the cell.

ADOLF
Hold still.

We PULL BACK and see that the Eva-inspired statue is only a
background detail in a larger painting, whose subject is Hitler.
A self-portrait.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.71

ADOLF fights to ignore the unintelligible whispering.
He busies himself painting, he turns back to Eva.

AGAIN, THE IMAGE FLASHES: The Swarthy Man's face descending
through space, his eyes focused downward.

IN THE CELL: Losing control, infuriated, Adolf approaches Eva,
blocking her torchlight, then whirls and KICKS the torch. SPARKS
AND EMBERS scatter across the frame.

93 RED LIQUID CONGEALS ON THE CEILING... BEGINS TO DRIP

SERIES OF IMAGES: The puddle of red liquid settles after the
drip, revealing a hint of a dead, emaciated body underneath.
X-rays of distorted bones.

Fast-cut stills of racial types, non-Aryan, in German uniforms.
And obese men. (Goering)

94  ADOLF'S FINGERS ADJUST THE KNOB ON A LARGE CALIPER

adjusting it to measure the size of his hand. He compares the
results to a life-size palm tracing of Frederick the Great ina
large book. (a print of Frederick's painted portrait is on the
facing page of the book).

ADOLF (V.O.)
There is no essence beneath appearance. Only
a series of appearances, each arising out of
the one before and giving birth to the next.

Only a series of appearances, each arising
out of the one before and giving birth to the
next.

95 PAGES IN ADOLF'S PHOTO ALBUM

Adolf glues archival photos onto pages of an extremely large
photo album. They're of nineteen-twenties Hitler, as speaker,
leader of a small party.

ADOLF
The horrors of World War I... The turmoil of
the postwar years...

By the nineteen thirties, Germany was an
abused child.

From her wounds grew National Socialism. The
great healer... The great healer.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.72

SOUNDS: Speeches, crowds, radio addresses.

ADOLF (0.S.)
I was thinking back...

We hear the Typist typing.

ADOLF (0.S.)
I remember the first time I spoke publicly.
It was in 1920... Or was it 1919?

Adolf stops, frowns, then goes back to work on the photos.

ADOLF
For the army, after the first world war. A
crowd of veterans. Disheartened, broken men
who had spent four agonizing years in the
trenches, only to return unappreciated....
Civilians could never know.

We get to photo of Hitler on a hill with an old soldier behind
him. Then to another of him watching a parade in Munich, with
old men next to him.

ADOLF
(low, to the typist)
They were moved by my words, my fervor. I
could speak. I remember one young man in a
wheel chair, who had lost his legs... There
was an ecstasy in his face.

DISSOLVE through more of the early photos of the Nazi movement.
Among them are some with Hitler standing with hands folded over
crotch.

ADOLF (0.S.)
I knew joy. I had the power to heal the sick.

ON ADOLF: He LAUNCHES into an angry, passionate speech, all off
screen. In giant contrast to his private self.

ADOLF
With will of steel, the purified Volk, united
as one, will repel all its enemies for the
sake of peace! So god demands!

The Typist does not type the speech. Without transition, Adolf
resumes dictating to the Typist, who again types.

ADOLF (off screen)
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.73

Dreams for the dispirited, an outlet for the
angry.

A page of the photo album, which has become even larger, holds a
photo of a Speer massive building. When the page turns, the
building comes crashing onto our view.

He

ADOLF
As with Wagner's music, the people could lose
themselves in the totality of my voice.

FREUD
One must be cautious. All people want to be
Gods. Unfortunately, some don't recognize
the impossibility of it.

ADOLF
You're wrong. All people have god within
them. Fortunately, most people don't
recognize this.

continues, examines a series of photographs of himself in

various speaking poses, taken by Hoffmann in a studio, with a
black back-drop.

Wwe
He
In

He
It

hear less and less of the Typist typing.
gets to a photo of himself at an awkward moment.
another photo, wearing a hat, he looks like an old man.

tries to peel one apart from the others, struggles with it.
rips. He CURSES. Stands up suddenly. His head and limbs JERK

and SPASM. His body is unnaturally rigid.

He
in

takes a breath, resumes dictating. When he paces, he crosses
front of an enormous image of himself on the cell screen.

ADOLF
Through the magic of my oratory and the
clarity of my ideas, I could turn my
daydreams into history, my private fantasies
into public policy.

If my will was strong, I could perform world
historic deeds.

ANGLE ON THE OPENING IN THE WALL

Adolf enters. Stands next to it.

ADOLF
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.74

Do you follow?
He waits for an answer. But there is none.

ADOLF
Answer me.

His will cannot force an answer. The CAMERA FLOATS up and away
from him, drifts along the wall to reveal HUMAN BONES imbedded in
the wall, just visible.

FADE TO BLACK.
96 THE PROJECTOR LAMP ARCS ON - A BRIGHT BEAM EMANATES

The film reels begin to turn. We MOVE down the beam, to see
Adolf on the other side of the beam.

ON THE CELL-SCREEN: Stalin.
IN THE CELL: ADOLF watches attentively, studying his nemesis.

He freezes the image, then imitates the expression frozen on the
cell-screen.

He walks toward the cell-screen, looks up towards it.

He whirls and shouts up into a corner of the cell, as if to
someone up there.

ADOLF

We were each islands of strength and will,
surrounded by great mutton-herds of sheep-
like followers... We knew that liberty,
equality and democracy are the grandest
nonsense, that war is the most simple
affirmation of life.

(beat)
But I do not admire him!

He squints into the darkness. HIS POV: We make out vague shadows
that seem almost like they're made by human shapes.

ADOLF
Envy? Stalin? Ha! A footnote! A footnote
if he's fortunate! I stole his place in
history.

Adolf steps into the projection beam, his shadow small in
relation to the overblown image of Stalin. He begins to walk
forward, his shadow growing over Stalin's face as he walks.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.75

We HEAR the Typist hit his carriage return, typing.

ADOLF
Stalin killed millions of his own people, but
he killed without grace. He ruled by fear. I
ruled by passion and ecstasy. Stalin had no
sense of form.

The projector beam shuts off; the cell-screen goes dark.
The room also goes dark.

SOUNDS FROM ACTION IN THE DARK: The projector grinds. Adolf
BASHES into something, apparently hurting himself. Lashes out!
Breaks something. Frustrated, he rants and raves.

ADOLF (in darkness)
Yes, he got people's attention -- but with
force and random brutality. A barbarian of
genius. So what? He offered nothing to
hypnotize and transform his people. Where are
the unifying themes? What is the drama in
slaughtering well-to-do farmers?

CLICK. A lamp CLICKS on, illuminating: ADOLF'S FACE - CLOSE

ADOLF
Stalin misunderstood the principles of opera.

97 CELL SCREEN MONTAGE: OPERATIC ELEMENTS OF THE NAZI MOVEMENT

Edited to Wagner music: Night rallies, over-scaled eagles and
swastikas. Progressing to medieval battle footage.

98 OMITTED
99 KLARA HITLER, IN THE PHOTOGRAPH NEAR ADOLF'S BED

After a few moments, Adolf's reflection off the frame's glass
becomes apparent.

He's in a state of anxiety from the previous scene. We PUSH in
to "their" eyes.

RED CLOTH flashes through the frame. It's a large Nazi flag.
Adolf has just thrown it over his shoulders, wrapping himself in
it. Wearing it almost like a cloak, he paces back and forth near
the opening in the wall, stopping once to kiss a corner of the
flag.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.76

ADOLF
According to the eternal laws of nature, the
soil belongs to those who conquer it.

We must purge our people of their softness
and sentimental philistinism.

The light through the opening diminishes almost undetectably by
the end of this monologue.

ADOLF (cont'd)
On this point I am icily cold: All life is
paid for in blood.
I crush the skulls of my enemies.
I made the death winds blow.

He pulls the flag up over his head, making it into a hood.

The beam of light becomes narrower, dimmer. We dissolve into the
next scene so that it seems to come through the eye of:

100 A WOLF MASK

A hand reaches in, removes the mask, revealing the face of a
small blonde child (age 5 or 6). The hand is Adolf's.

Adolf hears someone arrive, looks up to see: GOEBBELS.

ADOLF
Ah, my Dwarf among giants.

He turns back to the children, four in all, ages 5-8.

ADOLF
Run along my golden Nordic nuggets.

They scamper away. Adolf's mood drops visibly as the uplifting
presence of children dissipates.

Goebbels stares at Adolf like he's mad.
ADOLF (shrugs)
When your personal and political mythology is
threatened, you take steps to affirm it.

CAMERA DRIFTS to a chair that has "bars" in its back.
We look through the chair's back at Adolf.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.77

In the background on the cell screen are propaganda posters and
postcards.

Adolf moves to the wood stove. There's a file box there.
He casually begins to remove papers and photographs one at a time
from the files and feed them into the wood stove.

ADOLF (0.S.)

"The Prophet," "The Fighter," "The Last Hope
of the Masses," "The Shining Symbol of the
German Will to Freedom..."

GOEBBELS
With respect, Mein Fuhrer... You created the
Fuhrer role. You were the director. I only
helped stage it.

ADOLF
My God, Joseph, it became a terrible burden.

Goebbels appeals to Adolf's ego with great skill.
But Adolf continues burning the items from the file box.

GOEBBELS
Mein Fuhrer, future generations will pay
exorbitant sums for your paintings, your
letters, your pistol... To feel your
presence in them.

ADOLF
I was a victim of Nazi propaganda.
The invincible Fuhrer...

Goebbels keeps beating the flattery drum.

GOEBBELS
Historians will scrutinize your childhood,
examine your relationships, your dark
secrets.

ADOLF
It warped my judgement.

GOEBBELS
They will exaggerate your slightest scribbles
into profound, irrefutable, "clues"...

Adolf stops burning the contents of folders, looks down at them,
perhaps newly aware of their potential historic value.

ADOLF
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.78

...Perhaps.

Goebbels kneels down near him, begins sorting the papers and
photos that were about to be burnt, to preserve them.

GOEBBELS
Some fool, probably a psychologist, will
explore the issue of your appearance to
understand your deeper reality, and believe
it to be a profound question.

ADOLF

(finally falling for it)
The imbecile will not understand that
appearance versus reality is the central
question of all art. It will not be a unique
study. It will be cliched, mundane,
commonplace.

(thinks a beat)
The idiot.

GOEBBELS
For a thousand years, in each generation,
there will be petty bourgeois cretins
with their academic degrees who will dedicate
their lives to understanding you.

ADOLF
There's my thousand-year Reich.

Goebbels sees that he has Adolf going. Goebbels is sorting piles
of photos and notes. Making stacks for the PhD's.

GOEBBELS
At universities around the world, there will
be courses: Hitler, Architecture and
Politics.

ADOLF (NODS)
Hitler, Salvation and Human Evolution.

GOEBBELS
Or... Hitler, Wagner and Voyeurism.

Adolf turns to the cell screen; again loses himself in the
images, becomes serious again.

ADOLF
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.79

And artists too. Careers devoured, trying to
bridge the distance... striving for
comprehension....

Hitler likes this. Then smiles sadly to underplay it.
ADOLF
We gave them all much to brood over, didn't
we, Goebbels?

He doesn't sound all that confident. The MUSIC is discordant.
Adolf's panic builds anew.

101 A ROLLED UP X-RAY IS REMOVED FROM THE AMMO BOX
Adolf's hand unrolls the X-ray, reveals that it's of a human face
(his). He moves it around in front of a candle, which illuminates
it from behind, projecting the image onto him.
ADOLF (0.S.)
Blood and race...the only true source of
artistic inspiration.
ON ADOLF
ADOLF
Art is a sacred mission that requires the
artist to be a fanatic.

ON THE X-RAY The candle behind it has been replaced by the
intense fire of the incinerator.

ON ADOLF The X-ray stencils the light from the fire into odd
shapes on his face.

ADOLF
All unrest is creative.

DISSOLVE TO: (inserted stock footage) A German Bomber flies over
Berlin, dropping thousands of swastikas, which flutter down to
the cities below.

SOUNDS: Repeated whistles of bombs dropping, overlapped, without
"landing" or exploding.

DISSOLVE TO:
102 OMITTED
103 BOMBS EXPLODE AT NIGHT
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.80

SERIES OF IMAGES: A massive stone swastika is dynamited to dust.
A Freakish Man in an SS uniform leers. A warped mirror turns Eva
into a gargoyle.

104 MIST

Move through it to discover Adolf, lying in bed, his hands behind
his head, looking up at the ceiling. The White Nurse is barely
visible several feet away, shrouded in mist.

NURSE'S VOICE (0.S.)
And so the beautiful blonde maiden is falsely
accused and menaced by her lecherous
guardian, Frederick of Telramund...

DISSOLVE THROUGH: Images from German mythology. Knights. Wotan,
characters Adolf turns to for strength.

NURSE'S VOICE (V.0O.)
...TO her rescue comes the gallant, pure-
souled, silver armored knight Lohengrin,
bearing the redemptive power of the Holy
Grail...

WHITE OUT

ADOLF (prelapped)
The wise man understands what is true for all
men. That we are eternal. The soul and the
mind migrate just as the body returns to
nature.

105 ON THE CELL SCREEN: A LITTLE GIRL, CIRCA 1919

ADOLF
Thus life is eternally reborn from life.

We PULL BACK slightly to reveal Adolf in profile, close in the
foreground, lying on his back. His face is a "horizon" against
the cell screen images.

The CELL SCREEN images progress to strobing, dream-like footage
of the riots of 1919. Then to Hitler speaking at a rally in the
twenties.

ADOLF
Stop typing....
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.81

In a different era, the parts of me that were
compassionate and sensitive might have
developed. But in my era, there were forces
and attractions that led me to become the
founder and perfect leader of a new religion.

TYPIST
A new religion... Is that why SS members
couldn't belong to any church?

Adolf gestures subtly in the affirmative, then quickly re-
composes himself back to his work mode.

His lips are still, but his secret thoughts continue; we hear
them, low and conspiratorial.

ADOLF
(V.0.- internal)
I shall attain immortality even if the whole
German nation is obliterated in the process.

106 CLOSE: THE NURSE'S SYRINGE
She pulls up the plunger. It sucks up blood from Adolf's veins.

ANGLE ON: ADOLF, in a suit, talking loud. He's annoyed at having
to explain something for the fiftieth time. In the background, on
the cell screen, huge, is Hitler giving a speech, step printed,
from his early days.

ADOLF
World War One was lost because Germany was
stabbed in the back. The worst crime in
history was to surrender while Germany's
armies were still fighting on French soil.
Our factories were producing at record rates.
We were a strong nation.

TYPIST (skeptical)
Was that one of the colossal tales we told
the masses? The Americans had entered the
war. Hadn't our armies begun to collapse?

ADOLF (outraged)
We had the will to fight on. We could have
won... Thus the need to cleanse our nation.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.82

The Jews, Gypsies, the retarded. Germany
must be pure.

TYPIST
With our purified Germanic nation, why did we
fare so poorly in World War Two?

Adolf can't answer. The screen behind him goes black.

TYPIST
During the first World War, Germany was never
invaded. Yet by the end of the second, we
were overrun by foreign armies, our cities
and towns were bombed to rubble. Millions of
German women were raped by invading Russian
soldiers. Over five million Germans had been
killed.

ADOLF
The German officer corps turned out to be a
pack of mutineers and cowards.

TYPIST
But the officer corps was pure German blood.

Adolf glares, his anger building to irrational rage.
ADOLF (yells)
If I hear the words -- "the most complete
and utter defilement of a nation" -- one more
time, I'll scream!

TYPIST (contemplative)
Five and a half million Germans...

Adolf spins away from the Typist, turns toward us, starts walking
quickly. We dolly quickly back with him.

107 LOW ANGLE, ADOLF WALKS FASTER AND FASTER

Now he's in his military outfit, leaning forward, walking as if
up a hill (shot with actor on a treadmill - close to his face)

He thrusts his arm out, two fingers jabbing forward, and SHOUTS
AT THE TOP OF HIS LUNGS.

ADOLF
TROOP STRENGTH...!!!!? I don't give a DAMN
about TROOP STRENGTH!!! You are a general in

the army of the Third Reich.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.83

A German officer! An instrument of conquest!
Invincible! If you even mention retreat,
you're a coward... a traitor! A JEW!

HIGH, WIDE ANGLE

from high over Adolf's shoulder. The cell is empty. There is no
one on the receiving end of his furious diatribe.

ADOLF
Retreat is not acceptable! Losses can never
be too high! Only success guarantees
vitality! I am a man who knows only one
thing:

CLOSE ON HITLER: Adolf's face goes extremely red.

ADOLF
STRIKE! STRIKE! AND STRIKE AGAIN!

NEW ANGLE: ON HIS MOUTH, OFF ANGLE (spit spraying)

ADOLF (cont'd)
This is a battle of will! A fight for
existence! A FIGHT TO THE DEATH!

He spews his last words at peak intensity, then coughs violently,
hacking up phlegm.

Then he is spent. He stops several paces away from the camera.
Panting, exhausted, dripping with sweat.

His right hand moves to his chest, rests there, claw-like, as if
he's in pain. But he seems to have escaped the voices of
accusation.

TYPIST
I've always wondered... Late in the war you
issued an order to level every German
village, burn every church, destroy every
home in the face of the Russian invaders...

ADOLF (gasping for air)
Standard military procedure. To deny the
Slavs the spoils and satisfaction of
conquest.

TYPIST
Destroy every German home?

ADOLF (last gasp)
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.84

Every defeated people must die to be reborn
and begin anew. When Albert Speer disobeyed
this order, he betrayed German history and
the German people.

TYPIST
That would mean your final public policy for
Germany was national death.
Adolf's body goes completely limp.
DISSOLVE TO:
108 HITLER - MID-TIRADE (INSERTED STOCK FOOTAGE, SILENT)
In his mightiest speech voice:
ADOLF (V.O.)
Never again will there be the stigma of
cross-fertilization. The mix of good
blood with bad. Never again! NEVER AGAIN!
His last line is thunderous.
109 ADOLF - SITTING, STARING OFF INTO SPACE
Adolf is in deep despair, agony.

ON THE CELL SCREEN (seen in fragments only): Dark, obscure images
of unrecognizable machinery from the 1930's.

Adolf is sitting on the step-stool next to the projector, facing
mostly away from the cell screen.

We hear APPROACHING FOOTSTEPS. Eva appears on the other side of
the projector beam, veiled by the brightness projected on the
dust in the air.

EVA
Wolfie?

ADOLF (not all right)
I'm all right, Eva... Go away...

EVA

But Sweetie... Why are you...
ADOLF

It's... I... Artistic anxiety.

We see her back into the darkness.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.85

110 ADOLF'S HANDS FRANTICALLY PULL FILM OFF A TAKE-UP REEL

We look through the spinning wheel at Adolf's face. He's eyes
madly scanning the images on the film for something specific.

INSERT: One of the images is a small white coffin.
ON THE FLOOR: The ribbon of film tangles in a pile.

DISSOLVE IN a feint image of Von Stuck's Medusa, with hair of
serpents, and then an equally feint image of Klara Hitler.

FINALLY, DISSOLVE TO:
111 A MUD COVERED SNAKE WEAVES THROUGH THORNY BRAMBLES

We PULL BACK and RISE up, discovering more of the thicket, and
then a tiny white coffin on an adult-sized rack (cold mist
cascading onto it from above).

We look over the coffin to discover the face of a young boy,
whose eyes are unusually light, like Klara Hitler's.

This is YOUNG ADOLF, eight years old. His hair is greased back,
but a few sprigs have fallen forward. He wears a turn-of-the
century suit, with a flower in its lapel. He stares

straight ahead, sadness in his eyes.

We PULL BACK to see that he is standing in a graveyard (projected
backdrop) with the casket, all alone.

CLOSE: He raises his hand and flattens his hair, away from the
part in both directions (as the adult Hitler did).

ON THE CASKET: The snake crawls across the white surface, leaving
a filthy smear, then down toward Young Adolf's legs.

111A THE JAILER WATCHES ADOLF FROM A DARKENED CORNER

MOVE DOWN and discover a large, black GERMAN SHEPHERD, growling,
but muzzled and leashed at the Jailer's side.

Adolf's hands move over photos of himself looking stern. 2Another
page turns: Another angry photo. Very similar.

Another photo... Another.

112 SILHOUETTES OF HITLER YOUTH AGAINST THE CELL-SCREEN

They face away from us, toward the cell-screen. We TRACK along
behind them as if the camera is from Adolf's POV.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.86

He speaks conspiratorially, divulging delicate information.

ADOLF
Never forget what you're about to hear. Not
only was the Third Reich the most filmed
event in world history, it was also the most
carefully edited.

We reveal Adolf. He paces behind them, in their shadows.

ADOLF
This is the magic..... In 1926, when walking
up to a podium for a speech, I stumbled.
This film footage I personally impounded.

ON THE CELL SCREEN: footage of Adolf at his public best.

ADOLF
On unbearably hot days, when I would sweat,
the footage would not only be edited out, but
physically eradicated. Any error ina
speech, any miscue, had to be eliminated.

IN THE CELL, Adolf has stopped near the end of a row.

ADOLF
What is preserved on film, remains in men's
minds. Flawless speeches. Unflappable will.
One hundred thousand cheering citizens.
Women in tears.
An unassailable Thor, thundering from the
tower.

This in contrast with the Adolf we're watching, who is "unedited"
rumpled, a little bit off... not perfect.

ADOLF
Future fuhrers must understand: no matter how
carefully you plan and execute your
production, and no matter how good your
people are, you cannot control a change in
lighting due to unexpected weather
conditions, or that a car stalls in a parade,
or a background person carelessly stares into
the camera. You can never get it exactly
right.

He lowers his voice, whispers to the closest boy.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.87

ADOLF
But with editing.... The Black magic... I
have edited the imagination of people not yet
born. The original footage, the original
reality, the truth.... is now lost to them
forever.

BLONDE ARYAN BOY
In a way, the out-takes, the flaws... These
were like the Jews.

ADOLF
I never thought of it like that.

CUT TO: Autographed 8 1/2 x 11 photos of Hitler are handed to the
first girl in line. We DOLLY along as each girl takes one and
passes it down.

DISSOLVE TO: Four metal eagle/swastika flag-pole tops, passed
similarly down the row of boys. We dolly with them as they're
passed down, keeping them centered in our frame.

DISSOLVE TO:
113. A "NEGATIVE" OF SHOT OF A GRAY RECTANGLE

Two men slowly become visible inside the rectangle. We realize
it's a window. But everything's still in negative.

DISSOLVE TO THE POSITIVE OF THE SAME SHOT

The two men are in a booth that sits in the middle of the cell.
They're under a single bluish overhead light: Adolf sits ina
chair, wearing his double-breasted suit. Near him, stands a tall
man, wearing the striped uniform of a concentration camp
prisoner. Adolf is talking to the man, but we can't hear -- the
booth is soundproof.

A silhouetted figure steps into the foreground of our frame,
watching these two men: Adolf. Watching himself with the tall
man.
Looking over Adolf's shoulder, we notice more about the tall man.
His cheeks are hollow and his wrists and neck are bony. His hair
is short. He is stooped over slightly at the waist.

FADE TO BLACK.
114 CLOSE: HITLER - FRANTICALLY WASHING HIS HANDS

ADOLF
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.88

I dealt with pain by causing pain.
(0.S., breathless)
No, no... Ex that out.

Adolf finishes washing, paces. His hand on his temple.

ADOLF
It is a ridiculous notion.
(the Typist catches up)
That personal pain causes one man to injure
another...

SOUNDS: The concussive blows we previously associated with his
father terror.

115 ADOLF STANDS IN A COLUMN OF LIGHT, DELIVERING TREATISE

He uses extreme, dramatic gestures, almost like "flexing" for
each statement. After each declaration, a STROBE flashes RED that
washes out the image, then a frozen image of the "pose" appears
in negative. As he starts to move again, we dissolve to the
"positive" image, until the next red flash.

ADOLF (V.0.)
To protect Germany. An act of self defense.

FLASH to RED, fade in a FREEZE FRAME in NEGATIVE. Then as Adolf
moves again, dissolve back to positive.

ADOLF (V.0.)
To punish the German nation for undermining
my charisma.

FLASH to RED, fade in a FREEZE FRAME in NEGATIVE. Then as Adolf
moves again, dissolve back to positive.

ADOLF (V.0.)
To guarantee my singular place in history.

FLASH to RED, fade in a FREEZE FRAME in NEGATIVE. Then as Adolf
moves again, dissolve back to positive.

ADOLF (V.0.)
To take their breath away... The broad-
sweeping historical gesture.

FLASH to RED, fade in a FREEZE FRAME in NEGATIVE. Then as Adolf
moves again, dissolve back to positive.

ADOLF (V.0.)
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.89

As the dream of conquest faded, the SS needed
a new mission to sustain vitality.

FLASH to RED, fade in a FREEZE FRAME in NEGATIVE. Then as Adolf
moves again, dissolve back to positive.

ADOLF (V.0.)
To brand the German people with this crime
for all time.

FLASH to RED, fade in a FREEZE FRAME in NEGATIVE. Then as Adolf
moves again, dissolve back to positive.

ADOLF (V.0.)
To add my chapter to the history of the
chosen people. Their eternity is my
eternity.

FLASH to RED, fade in a FREEZE FRAME in NEGATIVE. Then as Adolf
moves again, dissolve back to positive. A voice speaks from
behind the camera - Freud.

FREUD (0.S.)
What about your fear of being one quarter
Jewish? Where did that fit in?
ADOLF
My final enigmatic act.
My postwar surprise to the world.
FLASH - THEN WHITE TO RED
116 SERIES OF IMAGES
The cell walls bulge slightly from external pressures, crumbling
Slightly. Fire "waves" in extreme slow motion (black & white).
Abstract images of the bodies of the twelve blonde women. A
flash of made-up eyes: the Woman in Black
She rises into frame - her black dress overtaking us.
117 BLACK FRAME
Adolf walks away from camera, formerly blocked by his back.

We discover a body, lying on its back on a table, covered by a
white satin sheet.

Adolf blocks our view of the head end of the body.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.90

FROM DIRECTLY OVER ADOLF: A slight breeze may cause the soft,
silky material to shimmer. The contours of the sheet make it
plain that the woman is naked under the cloth.

Adolf walks around the table to the other side. He stands at her
waist, extends both hands out, his left hand rests on her
stomach, his right rests on her head. Slowly, he brings his
hands together, allowing them to glide along just above the
surface of the woman's body.

As he does this, the CAMERA BOOMS DOWN to below the body, then
TILTS UP to Adolf. He raises his hands, as if in prayer, his
eyes on the woman's covered head. There is sadness in his
expression, but no tears.

He sits heavily on a stool near the table on which she lies, then
slowly reaches toward the head, gently pulls back the sheet. The
sheet moves through the bottom of the frame.

Then, with sudden violence, he yanks the sheet away.
(part way through the motion, becomes extreme slow motion)

OVER THE WHITENESS
FREUD (pre-lapped)
What do you mean when you say, "erotic
affinity with death?"
DISSOLVE TO:
118 THE CAMERA MOVES ALONG THE FLOOR
Discovers Adolf near the opening in the wall, barely lit.
ADOLF
Unspeakable desperation... Anxiety.
A hungry wolf, out to kill, eat and
survive.... That I could sit calmly at a
party rally and then get up to speak. This
was the true triumph of my will.
ADOLF (cont'd)
By comparison, the conquest of France was
nothing.
He turns to the opening.
DISSOLVE TO:
119 A SOFT-FOCUS FIELD OF COLOR

It's part of a painting. Working at his self portrait.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.91

ADOLF (defensive)
... because it doesn't matter if an idea is
true or false, only that it serves my
purposes.

Adolf is dissatisfied with his painting. Frustrated, he dabs
cotton into paint thinner, begins to smear a large portion of his
image, creating something unintentional:

A half-distorted, impressionistic piece of modern art.

FREUD
(sympathetically)
But members of your family suffered from
mental illness. Didn't you fear insanity?

ADOLF
I wasn't put in a lunatic asylum
I created a lunatic asylum.

120 ADOLF'S HEAD MOVES DOWN THROUGH SPACE
(similar to the Swarthy Man), ends up in Eva's arms, against her
chest. The camera keeps moving past them, into blackness where
his body would be.
ADOLF (0.S.)

What desperate void draws me to you... to

conquest?
121 ADOLF LOOKS AT HIMSELF IN A MIRROR
CLOSE: Adolf pulls his lips back from his teeth with one hand,
brings up a magnifying glass so he can see them in the mirror
greatly enlarged.

ADOLF
If I had not been ashamed to smile...

121A ON HITLER AT THE MIRROR

He's at the junction between Speer and primitive. He seems
fragmented, disheveled, out of sorts. (the lighting is shadowy,
dark; the mood is nightmarish).

CUT TO: A HAND LOWERS THE STYLUS ON THE VICTROLA.
WAGNERIAN MUSIC fills the cell.

AT HIS MIRROR, Hitler turns to find the source of the music.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.92

AT THE VICTROLA: We tilt up to find Goebbels in CLOSE UP looking
down at the machine. He turns and smiles at Hitler.

CUT BACK TO A WIDE SHOT: Of the two giant statues standing at the
end of the cell.

ON THE CELL SCREEN (REAR SCREEN) behind him: a huge Citizen Kane
sized head of Hitler.

Goebbels beckons to Adolf with his hand, indicating something off
screen.

ON ADOLF: He reacts by not.......
BACK TO GOEBBELS:

GOEBBELS
The first day I heard you speak, you looked
at me, your blue eyes met my glance, like a
flame. This was a command. At that moment,
I was reborn. I knew which road to take!

Goebbels snaps his hand and a brilliant spotlight reveals the
mannequin with no head atop the classical pedestal. The
mannequin wears Hitler's gold party uniform, locked in a speaking
pose, only the metal rod holding up its hat.

GOEBBELS
At last an epic worth writing.
ADOLF
But only you, a failed playwright to write

it.

ADOLF'S POV: The statues and the mannequin have gone dark. The
CELL SCREEN image has fragmented.

GOEBBELS
There was nothing wrong with the play. The
greater your failures and the more empty and
desperate you became, the more brutal and
grotesque the propaganda had to be to hide
the truth.

Hitler turns to his reflection in the mirror. BLOOD pours down
the glass, obliterating his image.

122 ENORMOUS METAL TEETH
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.93

inside a dark chamber. Light leaks into the chamber through
angular cracks. The mechanical shapes are hard to make out. A
long cylindrical shaft disappears into the distance.

There is a DISTORTED GROAN of metal; the square teeth begin to
turn. This is a metal gear. We MOVE BACK along other gears and
mechanisms, all interconnected, then out through an opening in
the chamber, revealing that we've been inside the film projector.

123 ANGLE FROM OVERHEAD

Adolf is sitting down frame left, gulping from a large water
glass, as if to quench a deep, deep thirst.

Freud remains standing behind him, suggesting the classic
analytic relationship to his patient.

ADOLF
(thinking back)
...My mother's long, sustained moans, the
shortness of breath, the occasional high,
rising voice... What happens to a little boy
when he hears such a thing?

FREUD
At what age?
ADOLF
I don't know... Six. Or nine...

He would never know whether she's
experiencing pleasure or pain.

(waits for Freud to respond)
Well, say something.

FREUD
Would the little boy feel shame about what
his parents are doing? Or guilt for
listening?

Adolf stiffens.

ADOLF
Stop. No ethics. Our Christianity
is the same as your old Jewish swindle.
Germany needs free men who feel and know that
Wotan is within them. In their own destiny.
In their own blood...

ADOLF (cont'd)
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.94

One is either a German or a Christian. We
cannot be both. We will tear out
Christianity root and branch. Annihilate it.

FREUD
Are you afraid that the Christian way of life
would lead to the dissolution of masculine
vitality?

Adolf glares at Freud.
ADOLF
(with sudden fury)

Bolshevik hogwash.

We HEAR the Typist typing his remarks. Freud silently
scrutinizes Adolf.

ADOLF
What are you looking at?

TICK-TICK-TICK he hears the Typist's fingers. Adolf whirls,
infuriated that the thoughts are "getting out."

124 THE BLONDE IN THE AQUARIUM
Adolf walks towards her. Her blonde hair floats hauntingly.

She watches him from in the water. When he gets to the glass,
his fingers silently probe, yearning to merge.

125 THE WATER GLASS IN ADOLF'S HAND
Adolf's staring off into space.

FREUD
Perhaps shame leads to concealment...

Again, the fingers TICKING on the typewriter keys. Again, he
turns to listen. But another sound blends with the keys:

The CLICK, CLICK of high-heeled shoes on a hard floor (WOMAN-IN-
BLACK musical theme).

He turns to the direction from which that sound is heard.
126 AN SS UNIFORM ON IT'S HEADLESS, LIMBLESS "FORM"
The CAMERA moves from the hat, down the spike where the neck

would be, along the tie, diagonally down the leather strap, to
the long knife, hanging in its scabbard from the belt.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.95

The knife is similar to the ceremonial knife established earlier.
FEMININE HANDS

reach in, grasp the knife, lift it slowly from its sheath.

TRACK WITH IT AS IT MOVES THROUGH SPACE

It approaches a swastika arm band on an outstretched arm. We PULL
BACK to reveal Hitler, saluting. The blade's tip slides under
the swastika...

Hitler's face becomes a picture of anxiety.

The woman in black stares blankly at Adolf. She SLICES the knife
through the fabric.

The swastika FLUTTERS limply through the air.
ADOLF, standing nearby, feels no power from his stiff salute. He
simply lowers his arm.

THE WOMAN IN BLACK

peels off her stockings.

Adolf's face has gone flat. We PUSH PAST HIM to where the wall
meets the floor. The severed swastika arm band lies in tatters
near seeping red liquid.

The CAMERA DRIFTS across the surface of the wall.

ADOLF (0.S.)
What is bad, we expel from us.
What is bad does not belong to us.

DISSOLVE TO:
127 A SIMILAR MOVE ACROSS THE TEXTURE OF A BLACK STOCKING

A shape moves towards the stocking from behind it (towards us).
Comes into focus as it contacts the net: Adolf's eyes, turned
ninety degrees (vertical).

CUT TO: His POV looking through the black stocking at Eva, who
lies underneath him. He pulls and stretches the material to
provide different views of parts of her body.

He moves the net away from his own face, presses the material
around her face to distort her actual features. She nervously
allows him to experiment. Part fear, part arousal.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.96

He reaches into his scabbard, produces the ceremonial dagger he
used with the woman in black. He stands above Eva.

We see there is blood on the dagger.
ON EVA'S FACE
She is blank, dehumanized by his action.

Adolf bends down and cuts the straps of her slip. A drop of blood
stains her white shoulder.

ON HER BACK: The white slip slides off her skin.

It lands on the floor of the cell near her feet. Red liquid, and
begins to soak up the liquid.

ADOLF
Germany is not worthy of me. Let her perish.

AN IMAGE FLASHES: The profile of the exotic Man's swarthy face,
looking down, moving through space, very slowly.

128 FADE IN FROM BLACK TO:

A SERIES OF SHOTS: A white light WHIPS past the lens, flaring
it. Metal teeth inside the projector GRIND film.

A character from an Otto Dix painting HOWLS at us.
Gaunt, starving, hollowed faces dissolve through each other.
Hitler's face is distorted by the warped mirror. The woman in
aquarium floats, still and pale just below the surface.

FADE TO BLACK.
129 CLOSE ON ADOLF - HOURS LATER (B.G.: CELL SCREEN)

After a long moment, he runs his fingers through his hair and
begins a long soliloquy.

ADOLF
(anguished)
Russia... Russia was my abyss.

Fingers on keys hurry to record. Adolf rubs his eyes.

ADOLF
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.97

It was the beginning of the end. It was the
end. The dark valley of that defeat in 1941
was unbearable. The magnificent

peaks... Then to fall so low... like
Napoleon. Death in the snow.

ADOLF (cont'd)
Since 1933, an unbroken chain of political,

economic and military conquests... Waves of
adulation... I was unstoppable.
But then... Russia.

(slowly, shaking his head)
Invincibility undone! My circle of
perfection... crushed under the boots of...
Slavs, no less! Stalinites. Untermenschen!

The Fuhrer Myth... ...shattered.
The typing stops.... Adolf glances over, frowns.

He takes a long breath, stands and begins to pace. He moves in
and out of the light, as if dodging it.

ADOLF

A quarter million of my young soldiers
slaughtered in the snow. My most humiliating
experience. I was naked before the German
people. The world. And then I had to
continue with my role; to take the stage
again. Only my will allowed me to remain in
character.

(he pauses)
A childhood nightmare returned...

(thinking back)
Running home naked from school in the snow...
Hiding behind bushes -- trying to avoid being
seen, to avoid ridicule, exposure.

(he wipes perspiration from his

lip, lowers his head)
I pondered many options. Calling a world
conference for peace. I could be the great
peacemaker, voluntarily withdrawing to our
old borders -- we would keep only Austria.

I considered retiring, going back to my
painting. I longed to paint, to create, to
build....

(continues, thinks back)
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.98

I should have been an architect. Has a great
ruler ever simply disappeared from the public
stage, changed his identity? "Let someone
else play Hitler," I thought... "Give someone
else the role!"

ADOLF (cont'd)
(gestures wildly, then relaxes)
The stain of defeat would not fade.

Then it came to me... Slowly at first, like a
blossom on a tree in spring.

What I could do next... An old image...

A primal hatred... crystallized. The
answer...

By this point, he's away from the cell screen. We don't see it
behind him. We only HEAR the sounds of train cars on old tracks.
The WAILING of human beings.

ADOLF
It obsessed me and lifted my spirits.

A new plan for these terrible times. It was
the one thought, the one idea, that brought
me peace enough to sleep.

I could systematically and completely destroy
all the Jews.

If my role as great conqueror had ended, a

new part beckoned -- The Great Destroyer.
(a silent moment)

I would be the architect of the greatest

catastrophe of all time... That's how I

would be remembered, gain my immortality.
(with steely calm)

Destroy all Jews.

Off screen, we HEAR the typist stop before typing the words.
Hitler notices, looks over at him. The typist begins typing
again... slowly.

CLOSE ON THE PAGE: as he types: "Destroy all Jews."

Before he finishes typing:

SMASH: a test-tube of blood smashes on the ground.
Before it's on the screen very long, we FADE TO BLACK.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.99
OVER BLACK: Music and sound effects evoking deepest, darkest
tragedy.
130 A MASK HANGS AGAINST BLACKNESS
The camera moves past it, discovers more masks, each with Adolf's
face in a range of emotions: Enraged. Defiant. Triumphant.
Proud. Angry. Charming. Ecstatic.

WE HOLD ON: The "triumphant" mask.

ADOLF (V.0.)
Stripped of grandeur... exposed.... nerve
endings.... a tender fetus poked

unmercifully by a long sharp, metal rod...
131 PUSH IN TO A PHOTO: HITLER AT AGE TEN, HIS ARMS CROSSED.
ADOLF (V.0.)
Sometimes it feels as if my body has been
partially cut out, never grown.

132 STOCK FOOTAGE: DOLLY ACROSS FACES IN A CROWD - EXTREMELY
SLOW

The faces are mid-rapture as they watch Hitler.

ADOLF (V.0.)
We were stuck in a mutually reciprocal dream
play.

Figures twirling with no ground.
Images with no object.

A mass hallucination.
133 BLACKNESS - SOMETHING COMING TOWARD US
As it quickly fills more and more of our frame we see that it's a
campaign poster of Hitler, just his face on a black field (note:
not cell screen).

It grows and grows, until it's overwhelmingly large, then push in
further, until it's just litho dots.

ADOLF (V.0.)
Only my image... No swastika, no party name,
no program. My image stands for discipline,
will, resoluteness. For Germany's destiny.

What it did not stand for was me.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.100

134 HUGE BLOWN-UP IMAGES OF HITLER DISSOLVE ONTO EACH OTHER

ADOLF (V.0.)

That a people would give all power... Turn
their lives and wills over to a single man...
It's insane.

135 EXTREME CLOSE, ABSTRACT OF ADOLF'S ACTUAL MUSTACHE (MACRO)

A sharp blade cuts through hairs in slow motion, accompanied by
SCRAPING, STRETCHING, RUMBLING.

CUT TO: Extremely close on hairs falling on white porcelain.

SLOWED: Adolf slowly rises into frame, revealing his hairless
lip and mouth.

His despair at seeing himself without the mustache is extreme. He
feels naked. Part of the mask is gone.

He tries a posture of authority, confidence, but it doesn't fit.
He jerks his arm out in salute, holding it for several moments...
Then snaps his arm back. Anxious.
ADOLF CONTORTS HIS FACE, WATCHES HIMSELF IN THE MIRROR.
He speeds through different expressions: Willful. Contempt.
Curiously piqued. Scorn. Arrogance. Amused. Anger. Jump-cut
together. Each is convincing. But the hurt expression returns,
the hair falls down again.
He tries anguish, grief. But he can't hold it.
He moves his shoulders quickly up and down as one would do when
sobbing, but it feels extremely forced.
ADOLF (V.0.)

The cruelest man is the one who has

experienced the deepest personal suffering.
SOUNDS: The concussive BLOWS we've tied to his father terror.
Again, his face goes blank, emotionless.
136 CLOSE: A ROUND HAND MIRROR.
It turns to reveal Adolf in magnified distortion.

His features, enlarged out of proportion, ripple and bulge. His
nose is huge, grotesque. His eye looks malignant, ready to pop.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.101
In the background, the set moves, as if he's spinning in space as
he examines his face.
SOUNDS: Adolf breathing rapidly. WHISPERS from off screen.
137 DANCING FEET, OUT OF FOCUS (STOCK FOOTAGE, NON-CELL SCREEN)

Hitler clowning on the patio of his mountain retreat. (the
footage he earlier edited out in front of Eva.)

This "eradicated" footage is followed by stills where he looks
weak, or effeminate, wearing Lederhosen, photos showing him
tired, old, uncharacteristically Hitler. Photos that reveal the
man beneath the masks/personas.

The images begin to repeat.

The images become over magnified, hugely grainy.

138 CLOSE/ABSTRACT ON A PIECE OF FLESH-COLORED NETTING

With short hairs attached. It's a fake mustache.

Theatrical make-up glue is applied. The mustache is pressed
against Adolf's upper lip.

ADOLF (V.0.)
As if the hero had no fears and the villains
had no need for affection.
PULL BACK QUICKLY to Adolf, in conventional MEDIUM SHOT,
reflected in the full-length mirror. He wears the same dark suit
he wore at the beginning of the film.

His panic begins to subside as he recognizes his old self in the
mirror's reflection.

MUSIC: Discordant, tuned to Adolf's inner tension.
SOUNDS: The Jailer's baton raking along the wall.

Adolf glances slightly sideways, to his right.

139 ON THE SCREEN: ADOLF GIVING A VITRIOLIC SPEECH WITHOUT SOUND

The cell-screen images are Nazi surreal. Steel-helmeted SS
soldiers, the black metal gleaming in the sun. Arms with
swastikas swinging. Shiny boots goose stepping. Slow motion,
dream like.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.102

We BOOM down, revealing the side-back of Adolf's head, and then
body, as he watches his image. We dolly slowly around behind
him, keeping the images on the screen beyond (ending almost in
profile from the other side).

ADOLF (V.0.)
My youth was an emptiness, a black mirror
laced with panic.
ADOLF (cont'd)
As Fuhrer, my mirror filled with my image,
but the glow was brief.
And when the brightness fades at twilight,
the brutality has begun. Finally when the
beast is spent, the black night returns.
CELL SCREEN: A FRAME OF HITLER FREEZES, THEN STARTS TO MELT
The image is of Hitler speaking at night.
ADOLF (ON SCREEN)
The only remedy is to lash out. Ever so
slightly the fog lifts. It doesn't go away,
but it is tolerable.
FADE TO BLACK.

SOUNDS a DEEP RUMBLING, like THUNDER, but vaguely suggesting a
distant battle.

140 ADOLF IN SILHOUETTE AGAINST THE SCREEN... WATCHING....

CELL SCREEN: A soldier dead in the snow. An icy wind blows. He's
already partially buried in the drifts.

The camera MOVES off the man's face to the snow.

We slowly DISSOLVE TO: A hollow-eyed, skeletal face, slowly
starving, near death.

His emotionless eyes stare directly at us, but the gaze is
distant, almost lifeless.

The face fades out. Just snowy white field.
141 A MOVING WHITE FIELD - THE NURSE'S UNIFORM

Move down the Nurse's arm to her hand as she removes a vial of
blood from the box of test tubes.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.103

She turns to hand it to Adolf. We see her face and hair.

She's not blonde. Her hair is now black. She's the Woman in

Black. Adolf reacts -- horror.

As she hands the vial of blood to Adolf, it slips.

WE TRACK IT IN SLOW MOTION (nurse's uniform in B.G.).

The vial of blood SHATTERS on the ground.

142 A DEATH MASK IS LIFTED TOWARDS US

SERIES OF IMAGES: The slow-motion, abstract fire. Red liquid

drips onto the floor from somewhere above. A wolfen German

Shepherd LUNGES, snarling, its fangs dripping blood.

The death mask CRASHES into the fire bowl, sending sparks; goes

up in flames.

On the sound track: DISTANT, MUFFLED SCREAMS. RUMBLING.

143 CLOSE: A PAGE IN THE TYPEWRITER - WORDS STILL BEING TYPED
"Destroy all Jews."

A hand enters and YANKS the sheet of paper from the machine,
reads it carefully. Then....

ADOLF
My god... This is powerful writing. "Like a
blossom in spring.".... Add this note.

The Typist puts another piece of paper into the typewriter.
Hitler pauses to compose in his mind.

ADOLF
"The seeds of this obsession were planted
long ago and now sprang forth from the black
soil of war". Or should I say the black soil
of defeat...?

TYPIST (cold)
Isn't defeat what you mean?

ADOLF
Wait... Something's out of order. Before the
defeats... I'm trying to remember... The SS

death squads eliminated hundreds of thousands
of Jews and communists in the course of the
invasion of Russia... Of course that was
mostly a military security issue.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.104

He puts down the prized piece of writing, frantically searches
through nearby folders, looking for new facts.

He finds a page, clipped to others. He flattens it out, scans it.
It's a record, with dates.

ADOLF
So long ago so much has happened...
(he searches through papers)
I know I declared war on the United States
December eleven -- one week after the first
defeats in Russia...
ADOLF (cont'd)
(he stands and paces)
I was desperate to transcend the agony... To
appear strong.
(considers)
Maybe I need to say...

"Men may see my actions as atrocities of epic
proportions. I saw them as a way to relieve
tension."

Or... "In a mere fortnight, I sealed
Germany's military and moral fate."1

Or...
(pause)
...let's just leave it the way it is.

Still unsettled, pondering the dilemma, Adolf hands back to the
Typist the piece of paper containing the explanation for killing
the Jews. The Typist studies it for several long beats.
144 AT THE OPENING IN THE WALL
Adolf leans down, as close to the opening as he's ever been.
ADOLF
(anxious)
Why do men act as they do?
Adolf ponders this, then reasserts his will.

ADOLF
People act out of fear. Every time...
(straightens)
Fear and self preservation.

The presence on the other side remains silent.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.105

145 FILE BOXES FULL OF FOLDERS

With increasing desperation. Adolf flips through folders full of
unsorted photographs. Desperately searching.

PUSH IN on his face.

SNAP, SNAP, SNAP he puts the photos down like dealing cards. This
pile, that pile.

He jerks his head around, looks off screen, paranoid.
SNAP SNAP... more photos.
THE WOOD STOVE DOOR flips open. Photos drop in, catch fire.
ADOLF
After 1941, I rarely spoke in public.
(looks at more photos)
No more adulation...

He looks at a few more photos.

ADOLF
I would not waiver... My place in man's
memory depended on a consistent
presentation... I would be a martyr to my
historic destiny.

ADOLF
All that remained was to perform the
denouement...

SNAP, SNAP, SNAP more photos get sorted. Folders full of
writings are grabbed up, sorted through.

Adolf pushes his hair back, turns to someone off screen.

ADOLF
Destroy Warsaw. Burn Paris.

FADE OUT.
146 FADE IN: ADOLF, STANDING STIFF, ARM OUT
Adolf gestures with two fingers, his arm shaking with will.
ADOLF (at the Typist)
No, no. I am an artist and a German

Nationalist! I never killed a single person
with my own hands! My whole life was
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.106

dedicated to fighting the schemers who
plotted to take over the world!

He SMACKS his fist into his hand. Then whips it down.
The Typist, appears behind Adolf and whispers into his ear.

TYPIST
Your every aversion matured to a murderous
extravaganza.

149 AN ARYAN BUST
A hand SQUINCHES through the top of its clay head.
146A THE JAILER'S DOG SNARLS MENACINGLY BEHIND ITS MUZZLE

The German Shepherd strains at the end of its leash, focused on
something off screen, coiled to attack.

The Jailer's hands slowly unbuckle the dog's muzzle. He then
unhooks its leash! The dog LUNGES, jaws SNAPPING.

147 CUT TO: GOERING STANDS STILL, FAT IN A GARISH DRESS UNIFORM

His sword is huge. Adolf walks up behind him, as if at an
inspection. The lens makes Goering look like a hog.

Goering sucks in his gut. Hitler walks behind him, KNOCKS off
his hat.

ADOLF
You're an embarrassment.

Rips off an epaulette, then another one... medals, his
ceremonial sword...

ADOLF
You're a pathetic heap of flesh.

And your mismanagement of the Luftwaffe...
Eine Affenschande - shameful even for a
monkey.

Suddenly, Adolf jerks a hand around Goering's head, hooks
Goering's mouth with his index finger, yanks him around to face
him.
ADOLF
(in his ear, menacing)
You fat oaf.

150 ADOLF, VERY PARTIALLY LIT
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.107

He's crouched by a primitive portion of the cell, painting on the
wall with crude tools. The image is part man, part beast (antlers
growing from its head, inspired by Von Stuck).

ADOLF

I devoured past and future.

I devoured....

I fused the symbolic with the real.

I exuded spiritual terror.
ON THE SOUND TRACK: A mad SCREAM, that becomes a SCREECH, a
distant voice, HOWLING -- The agony of a man and of all mankind.
Time is warped into SLOW MOTION.

FADE TO BLACK
148 GOEBBELS REHEARSES A HITLER SPEECH IN A THREE-SIDED MIRROR
With self-righteous rage. Looking debonair in his leather coat
and his party hat. Is he mocking the Fuhrer, or rehearsing to
take the Fuhrer's place on the stage?
GOEBBELS (speech voice)

Nazism and Christianity are based on the same

idea that one individual could provide

salvation. A simple man could work a miracle

of enlightenment and faith in a world of

skepticism and despair!
Goebbels stops, examines his final pose for effect.
He stops when he hears a voice behind him.

ADOLF
You, too, Goebbels? A Judas. A Jew.

ADOLF steps into the light. Goebbels turns cautiously to him.

151 OMITTED

152 ADOLF CHANTS NEAR THE OPENING IN THE WALL

The light through the opening is as dim as it's ever been.
ADOLF (rhythmically, chanting)

There is not a drop of Jewish blood in my
veins. My father was a great man.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.108

The photos with my hands folded over my groin
had nothing to do with any genital
peculiarities.

Never did I use my official position to amass
great personal wealth.

What I did was for the good of Germany. The
Jews caused World War II, not me.

The rumors that I had women urinate on me are
totally unfounded.

The relentless lies told about me, a simple
and straight-forward man, were greater than
ever told about any man in history.

Adolf waits and waits for any sign whatsoever...
He closes his eyes, full of self-torment.

FREUD (0.S.)
You're in pain.

Blood rushes to Adolf's cheeks. Anger swells. He whirls (slow-
motion).

ADOLF
LIES!

Adolf fights to control it.

ADOLF
Come here, Freud. Look at my new Jerusalem.
The new Germany.

CUT TO: the thick, angular architecture of the city, ending on
the giant tower. Freud takes all this in, nodding. Adolf hates
this.

FREUD
(still trying to help)
And about this rage...?

PUSH IN to Adolf's EAR as cheers and chants from passionate
crowds rise in DEAFENING echoes.

In an explosion of rage, Adolf SLAMS his fist down on Germania,
the model city, destroying a corner portion of it.

SUPERIMPOSE: FAINT TRACE OF A CHURCH EXPLODING IN FLAMES
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.109
DISSOLVE TO: FREUD'S FACE. He gazes at Adolf empathetically.
Adolf misreads Freud's reaction as being unimpressed.

Enraged, he lifts Thor's Hammer into frame. Freud continues to
gaze back at him. Adolf menacingly raises the hammer higher.

Is he going to destroy Germania?

The hammer moves in SLOW MOTION through black space. The CAMERA
follows it to its destination: Freud -- visible just long enough
for us to recognize his image. Then...

SMASH! Freud is shattered.

The pieces of glass recede - in slow motion - into total
blackness. This takes a long time.

153 SERIES OF IMAGES RELATING TO ADOLF'S RISING ANXIETY
(note: these images are not on the cell screen)
Adolf rubbing his hands, as if to rub off a stain.

The "Nordic Nugget" children hold hands, one looks back, afraid,
then they run away. (from Adolf)

INTERWOVEN INTO:

Where the wall meets the floor, moisture seeps through into
small, dark-red puddles... The surface of the wall glistens.

DISSOLVE TO: Wet paint on the self-portrait canvas. Much of the
paint has been wiped away. Revealed underneath the paint is a
photograph.

EXTREMELY CLOSE: THE NEEDLE OF THE SYRINGE
as is sucks up a milky drug with spots in it
A distant WOMAN'S SCREAM. Not pain, but existential angst.

SOUNDS: loud battle, explosions, machine gun fire, men yelling,
screaming.

The blonde transvestite. Glorious Germany in ruins. Marching
soldiers superimposed over symmetrical grave yards. The
concentration camp prisoner who Adolf spoke to in the booth in
the cell. A vial of Adolf's blood smashing. A vestige of a mask
is peeled off, revealing only another mask.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.110

Grotesque paintings by the surrealist, Otto Dix.

Adolf's mother. Swastikas. Contorted dead, frozen soldiers.
Adolf's body with no head, only a backbone sticking up where the
neck used to be. Glass breaking. Germania burning. Images where
freakish Nazis appear, looking inbred, deformed.

Images we've seen earlier on the screen, flipped, off center.
Hitler's image saluting, and then sliding off the cell screen.
Costumes and props of Nazi era. Out-take photos, like the shot of
Adolf in process of sitting down.

The syringe plunger is pressed in. Pressed in again. Again.
154 THE CAMERA PANS FROM BLACKNESS TO ADOLF'S HAND

holding the handle of Thor's Hammer. After a beat, he releases
it. The handle drifts away from the hand, to the right of frame,
then off frame.

Adolf picks up a piece of mirror. Sees his reflection on it.
An awkward composition. A tired, anguished face. There is
stubble on his chin, his hair is out of place. His uniform is
unbuttoned.

At the edge of our frame, a slice of Adolf's profile appears,
just more than a bare outline, Adolf looking at himself in the
glass. (lighting on the background barely fades up)

Adolf gazes into the glass, then turns away. He sees Freud
sitting in the room just as before, not "shattered."

ON ADOLF: He reacts.... stunned.
DISTORTED GRINDING metal fills the sound track.
155 HIGH-WIDE SHOT - ADOLF PACING AROUND IN PANIC
ADOLF
I am.... I can't find...
(suddenly shouts out)

I am Hitler! Sieg Heil!
IN THE BACKGROUND ON CELL SCREEN: Fragmented images.
Panic. Camera follows, HAND HELD. Adolf blurts out partial
sentences, broken streams of consciousness. (Most is "internal

monologue", i.e., we only occasionally see his lips move when he
speaks.)
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.1411

He grabs for loose files, flips urgently through them, then DROPS
the papers. The Typist just stares blankly back.

ADOLF
Power... Infinite. If I could just...
Discipline!

Iam... A. Hitler... Thousand year...
THOUSAND... ! Reich! Destroyer!
Masculine... The Immortal...!

He stops, stares at his reflection in the cell's mirror. Frowns.
Twice he jerks his head, as if to orient himself.

ADOLF
But I... This can't....

He weakens. The panic subsides. He waits for a clear thought
before speaking again. Tiny shock waves pulse through his brain.
He gains control over syntax, but his voice fluctuates from soft
and droning to percussive outbursts.

ADOLF
Every.... Every.. person.... Every nation
must be as granite in this terrible world...

A man needs strength in the face of danger;
women need protection.

ADOLF (cont'd)
A man builds himself from nothing.
All life is paid for with blood. Boldness
has genius. Boldness has genius.
I must be a harsh master.

He ends up near the opening in the wall, his back to it.

He leans over, puts his hands on his knees and pants for air like
a sprinter runner who can't catch his breath.

After several long moments:

ADOLF
When you... When you say people act from
either love or hate... what does... People
want immorality... Immortality.
I... I don't understand...

The camera PANS over to the opening in the wall.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.112

No response. It pans back to Adolf. He begins to lose control
again.

ADOLF
I created myself...!

A violent spasm shoots through his body, his muscles clenching as
his nerves misfire. His limbs contort, as if in seizure. He
tries to speak... nothing comes out... He opens his mouth... and
SCREAMS. We see the scream in his reddening face, only we don't
hear the sound. Then, gasping...

ADOLF
Iam.... I created my...! greatest self!
Iam... A. Hitler... Thousand year...
THOUSAND... ! Reich! Destroyer!
Power... Infinitely infinite. Beyond the

infinite.
Adolf waves his hand with contempt, walks away.
ADOLF
(under his breath)
Ridiculous. Lies!

He stop, turns back, then walks away again. He exhausts
himself... Gathers his breath again, and calls out, weakly.

ADOLF
Eva.

Adolf tightens grotesquely, like a warped human spring.
Then his limbs snap out, uncoiling violently.

CUT TO: A membrane... Adolf tears through it towards us...
ADOLF
(shouts)
EVA!!
Adolf tries to walk away, but he has lost much body control.
156 A FIELD OF WHITE SLIDES DOWN THE FRAME

Revealing twin white fields. We realize it's the hem of Eva's
SLIP, sliding down frame, revealing her thighs.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.113
ANOTHER ANGLE: still looking down, but from a position 180
degrees around from the last (so the hem is moving up).
A dark object moves up frame behind the hem. Eventually, we
realize it's the back of Adolf's head, nestling face down,
childlike, between Eva's white thighs, a soft, safe refuge (we do
not see Eva's face).
AN IMAGE FLASHES: the SWARTHY FACE moving down, down. Finally,
Eva's lace-covered breast appears at the bottom of frame. The
swarthy face moves to it.
BACK IN THE CELL
Adolf YANKS UP as the CAMERA WRENCHES down to his level.

His face fills our frame - a picture of rage.
Seething rage. The horror of horrors.

157 THE BLONDE WOMAN IN HER AQUARIUM

She looks up to see: ADOLF. He walks with determination, swings
his fore-arm, SMASHES THE GLASS.

Water cascades out.

Adolf stands in the middle, looking around for the woman.
An apparition, she is gone.

On the sound track: DISTANT HOWLS. HORRIBLE HUMAN DESTRUCTION.
158 CAMERA IS HIGH ANGLE, STRAIGHT DOWN ON ADOLF

He's standing, looking up at us, almost into the lens, his face
knotted in physical/mental agony.

The CAMERA begins to twist on lens axis. Room spins.

159 GLOBS OF WHITE LIQUID

float slowly through the air. The cell walls appear in the
background. The CAMERA lyrically follows the globs down until
the high-pointed, majestic tips of Germania appear at the bottom
of the frame.

Its broad vistas and magnificent structures spread out before us
as "rain" pours upon it, sparkling in a back-lit dance.

DISSOLVE THROUGH slow motion angles of "rain" falling on various
parts of Germania - streets, tanks, churches, etc.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.114

The "rain" is unusual. It wets one section, then circles to
another, as if a single, dark cloud dances overhead.

When Germania is soaked, the deluge stops. Quiet returns.
Music from Wagner's Gotterdammerung rises up.

We hear a distant rumble.

A BRILLIANT EXPLOSION OF LIGHT

in the foreground whites out the bottom portion of our frame.
Then resolves to a single flame. A long, wooden match with a
hardy flame is poised in Adolf's shaking fingers. It moves
towards Germania, and the gasoline-soaked miniature city explodes
into flames.

ADOLF'S FACE - ALIGHT WITH FLICKERING LIGHT

The flames consume the model.

DISSOLVE TO: SERIES OF ABSTRACT SHOTS OF FLAMES

Flares. Fire storms. Walls of fire. Slow motion, fast motion,
step-printed.

SUPERIMPOSE: Texture of blonde hair blowing, blended almost
subliminally with the flames. It suddenly blackens.

DISSOLVE TO:
160 ON THE CELL-SCREEN - MOVING IMAGES OF DEFEATED GERMANS

German soldiers starving in the snow in Russia. Ghostly,
hollowed-out faces. Prisoners of war behind barbed wire.

Adolf walks close to the opening in the wall, leans down towards
the light coming through.

ADOLF (0.S.)
What does the future bring?

IN A CORNER OF THE CELL: A puddle of red liquid grows steadily,
now. The outer pressure is great.

Human bones become visible in the wall as mortar falls away.
ON THE CELL SCREEN: Other images that show the suffering of

German people. Not just soldiers: Generals. Civilian men, out of
work, homeless.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.115

ADOLF (0.S.)
No one questioned me. Further and further
down the path... No one said stop...

The whole apparatus said yes, go on.

Women in rags. Orphaned children. Slowed down, step-printed,
almost "still". Others are stills.

ON THE SCREEN: Children with their hands up being held by a
machine-gun toting soldier; women crying.

ADOLF (0.S.)

Repeating cycles of affirmation.

Echo. Echo. It was all so abstract. Living
space, the racial theories. Aesthetics.

At a parade, a small girl cries, Adolf pats her cheek.
ADOLF (0.S.)
I never touched the suffering.
I kept it so distant...
The footage slows almost to a freeze.

EXTREME CLOSE on Adolf's face. He turns to look almost directly
at us, so that one bloodshot eye fills the middle of the frame.

 

DISSOLVE TO: Another angle of Adolf, looking up a bit, facing us,
the eye of the outgoing shot dissolving such that it's over his
forehead, and a little bit bigger than the eyes in the incoming
shot. ("third eye of expanded perception")

Red-liquid seepage at the corners of the cell turn to steady
drips, then to red rivulets. Red liquid runs down the bio-
textured walls. Cracks appear in the ceiling...

Plaster crumbles from the ceiling and upper walls.

DISTANT SCREAMS. Adolf looks up.

ON THE SCREEN: Images of death. Dead soldiers in the snow. Two
dead men lying on a sidewalk in a ghetto. Men with a wood cart
pick them up, join other carts of dead people.

Soldiers open fire on helpless civilians holding shovels, who
fall into graves they've dug themselves.

Women drag thin dead bodies through ash, dump them on piles of
other dead. Bulldozers push naked dead bodies into pits.

ON ADOLF: He sees. Maybe for the first time, he sees.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.116

He moves closer and closer.

Until, as we look at him from behind, he is surrounded by death.
We push past him to the screen. The images slow down; so they
are even more unavoidable.

SLOW DISSOLVE: Adolf's face (during the long dissolve, his face
is superimposed over the images of death).

He backs towards the wall, his hands out to keep himself from
falling against it. When he's pressed against the stone, no
where else to go, he's forced again to face the screen.

We see his hands grope the wall behind him, as if unconsciously
looking for a way to climb up it. We notice shapes in the wall:
bones, perhaps the eye-sockets of a skull, barely protruding from
the "stone" of the wall (like dinosaur bones in an archaeological
dig.)

Finally, Adolf glances at the place where his hand seeks a hold,
sees that it's a skull. He's surrounded by bones. His hands are
covered in blood.

Adolf's eyes expand, almost beyond normal size (exaggerated
optically), as they absorb the horror. He opens his mouth
unnaturally wide (exaggerated optically) to scream.

We FREEZE his face, mid-scream, just as the scream begins on the
sound track

FADE TO BLACK.
Another SCREAM, and then another, and then another, each
overlapping the previous, each louder and more horrific, more
animalistic than the last. As if he will scream forever.
AS THE SCREAMS ECHO...
DISSOLVE TO:
161 A PRISON WALL BEGINS TO COLLAPSE

As the stones and mortar collapse, bones and corpses imbedded
into the walls are revealed. They collapse with the walls.

Then another, bones and rock and mortar, collapses.
Yet another.

The SCREAMS continue.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.117

A red torrent crashes in, as if from a damn breaking.
The red flood sweeps up everything in its path: the flags, the
uniform mannequins, the paintings, the sculptures, the files.
The typewriter.
The flood rushes over us.
All is lost.
FADE TO BLACK:
162 SLOWLY PULL OUT AND BACK FROM THE BLACKNESS

until we see that the black is that of a pupil. We keep backing
out, to see the iris, then the whole eye.

Eventually, we've pulled out to Adolf's face, which is now gaunt,
hollow. He is older. His hair is grayer, thinner, longer. His
skin is dry, talc-like. Aged.

The only sounds: His BREATHING. Until...

THE CAMERA RISES UP

to see that Adolf is slumped in a near-fetal position, in the far
corner of the cell, small and vulnerable. He is down to his
trousers and a torn, stained shirt.

Slowly rocking himself. He is without will. Spineless. (asa
drunk wallowing in the streets, or a man in a mental institution
who's lost all trace of human spirit).

ADOLF'S HAND

slowly reaches out, slides across the floor of the cell.

HIGHER, WIDER ANGLE

The cell, totally empty except for Adolf.

We see that the cell, dry now, is completely empty. Barren.
Washed clean of every last scrap of Adolf's trappings and
"history." The screen in the background is pitch black, a black
rectangle against a slightly lighter wall. Emptiness.

The walls appear to be made of cloth, with the texture and color

of the earlier rigid walls painted on them. Torn and gaping in
places, they billow in a mysterious breeze.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.118
The light is flat... stark... dim. No drama or dynamism to it
whatsoever.
CLOSE ON ADOLF
There's a long, pause. The sense of a presence on the other side
of the wall, through the opening, is slightly greater (strongest

light and music motif). We hear Adolf's voice, but his lips do
not move.

ADOLF (V.O.)
All this madness... The destruction... The
human suffering...
He can barely speak. Chilled, he shivers.
ADOLF
I too was trapped in the whirlwind we
created...
An empty mirror filled with hate.

Adolf turns, looks up toward the opening in the wall, where the
light emanates. The light is whiter, more intense.

ADOLF (V.O.)
I expected God to reach down (gestures) and
stop me... But he never did...

We dissolve to the opening in the wall.

We dissolve back to Adolf. He listens for an answer, makes no
move.

We dissolve back to the opening in the wall: silence.
ADOLF
Please....please say something...
Please help me.
Only more silence.
FROM OFF SCREEN: THE SOUND OF THE PROJECTOR
163 ON THE SCREEN: SLOW MOTION HITLER SPEAKING FROM ON HIGH

Impassioned. Enraged. The quintessential Hitler, but in total
silence.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.119

ADOLF, in the cell, stands close to the screen, his head tilted
back to look up at the cell-screen from an extremely oblique
angle.

ON THE SCREEN: His image towers above him.

IN THE CELL: Adolf steps into the projector's beam, his shadow
falling on the cell-screen. In contrast with Hitler on the
screen, Adolf's rigid spine of will has curved and slouched with
age.

He turns toward the projector, his historical image projected
onto his face in the cell. He squints into the light, moves
slowly toward it.

ON THE SCREEN BEHIND HIM: More quintessential Hitler from the
days of his rise to power.

ON THE SOUND TRACK: Distorted music, effects and speech derived
from sources such as Wagner, parade cheers, rally chants,
Hitler's speeches, and bonfires, etc... We hear in the SCORE
strains of "Dies Irae." (the music of death).

ADOLF'S POV: A small circle of white against a black field. The
circle gets larger as he moves toward the projector.

ON ADOLF: The projector's flicker slows so that we see the
black/white contrast clearly. (we HEAR a slow motorized clicking
on sound track). His expression is strangely calm.

The light is so bright as he approaches, Adolf's figure begins to
white out entirely.

ANGLE FROM BEHIND ADOLF

Rays of light knife between his arms and legs as he moves,
outlining him, blasting outwards like laser beams.

ADOLF

is almost totally white. The tempo of flashing light on him is
at its slowest. The CHATTER of the machine is a high-pitched
POUNDING...

164 THERE IS A SUDDEN FLASH OF BRILLIANT WHITE.

The explosion of light and sound is followed by fuzzy smears of
shadow and light.

ON ADOLF
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.120

He continues on, directly towards a strange mechanism at the end
of a dark tunnel. Projected onto him: vibrating, out-of-focus
smears of shadow and light.

ADOLF FROM BEHIND ADOLF

Beyond him, we see for the first time: The film gate.
A large frame, about six feet high by ten feet wide.

Behind it is bright light, filtered now by the colors and
patterns streaking through the "gate." Above the gate is half
of the next "frame". Below, half of the last.

The shadowy, nondescript machinery makes LOUD, DISTORTED noise,
as dreamlike as the images.

Adolf approaches in SLOW MOTION. (When he blinks or moves, it is
surreal, haunting).

165 A FEW FEET FROM THE FILM PLANE

Adolf stops. The images cease streaking and become visible at
normal speed.

Mostly, they are images that represent the "illusions" created by
the Adolf and the Nazi party, all of which we have studied
throughout the film: Rallies, parades, flags, uniforms, etc...
The images change every three or four seconds.

Adolf reaches out one hand, and SLOWS THE IMAGES, so that we see
the figures moving at about half speed.

He puts out both hands. Now we see them move at quarter speed.

He slows the images even more, so that we almost see each
individual frame slammed into the gate, then held there, then
yanked away and replaced by the next.

ANGLE FROM BEHIND ADOLF, LOOKING AT FILM PLANE
He pulls back, pausing. The images speed up again.

He reaches in a finger and lets his fingernail scrape the film.
The film SCRATCHES, transmitting a jagged streak of white light.

With increasing confidence, and a consistently calm attitude,
Adolf now leans back, closes his hands together (almost prayer-
like), and firmly pushes them through the film,

splitting, releasing more white light. The images part like water
coming down a waterfall.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.121

The shape of the tear suggest the shape of the opening in the
wall. The light beams through it, just as it did from the opening
in the wall, only a hundred times brighter.

CLOSE ON ADOLF'S FACE - fear, apprehension... but also eagerness,
hope.

Adolf spreads his hands apart, using considerable effort to widen
the rend in the elastic film, splitting the film in two.

Brilliant white light FLARES the lens, almost whites out our
entire frame.

Adolf closes his hands again, then opens his palms against the
flow, to force open the rend to about three times the width of
the first opening.

He leans toward the opening. The light GUSHES through, onto
Adolf. There is a CHORUS of voices.

For a moment, Adolf looks directly into the light, but quickly
grimaces at its unbearable purity and brilliance.

He squints his eyes, turns away, unable to look into it, and
raises his hand to block the intense rays.

The instant he lets go of the ripped film strip to shield his
eyes, the film-strip curtain closes, again filtering out the
light. The images on the film strip once again take shape.

ON ADOLF'S BACK

He takes a moment to recover from the trauma of the light.
When he has, he turns toward us.

As he looks at us (into the lens) we PUSH slowly closer.

The expression on his face is one of profound realization, and
extreme sadness and anguish. (slow-motion)

On the sound track: dissonant music, distant human screams.
OPTICAL: The film frame zooms back slightly, creating a thin, but
slowly expanding border around the last shot.

(like a Chinese box within a Chinese box)

We DISSOLVE into an actual photo of the man (or live action).

Then DISSOLVE to red.
THE EMPTY MIRROR - final production script - June 5, 1995 p.122

DISSOLVE TO WHITE. THEN TO BLACK. THEN TO WHITE.

THEN TO SWIRLING GRAIN

THE END.

BLACK CREDITS ROLL OVER WHITE

"The Filmmakers wish to acknowledge a variety of great works of
literature from which a modest number of lines of dialogue
were borrowed."
